The stoutest apostle of the Church, they say, is the missionary,
    and the missionary, wherever he unfurls his flag, will never
    find himself in deeper need of unction and address than I,
    bidden tonight to plant the standard of a Southern Democrat in
    Boston's banquet hall, and to discuss the problem of the races
    in the home of Phillips and of Sumner. But, Mr. President, if a
    purpose to speak in perfect frankness and sincerity; if earnest
    understanding of the vast interests involved; if a consecrating
    sense of what disaster may follow further misunderstanding and
    estrangement; if these may be counted to steady undisciplined
    speech and to strengthen an untried arm--then, sir, I shall find
    the courage to proceed.

Note also Mr. Bryan's attempt to secure the confidence of his audience
in the following introduction to his "Cross of Gold" speech delivered
before the National Democratic Convention in Chicago, 1896. He asserts
his own inability to oppose the "distinguished gentleman;" he maintains
the holiness of his cause; and he declares that he will speak in the
interest of humanity--well knowing that humanity is likely to have
confidence in the champion of their rights. This introduction completely
dominated the audience, and the speech made Mr. Bryan famous.

Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Convention: I would be
    presumptuous indeed to present myself against the distinguished
    gentlemen to whom you have listened if this were a mere
    measuring of abilities; but this is not a contest between
    persons. The humblest citizen in all the land, when clad in the
    armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts of
    error. I come to speak to you in defense of a cause as holy as
    the cause of liberty--the cause of humanity.

Some speakers are able to beget confidence by their very manner, while
others can not.

_To secure confidence, be confident._ How can you expect others to
accept a message in which you lack, or seem to lack, faith yourself?
Confidence is as contagious as disease. Napoleon rebuked an officer for
using the word "impossible" in his presence. The speaker who will
entertain no idea of defeat begets in his hearers the idea of his
victory. Lady Macbeth was so confident of success that Macbeth changed
his mind about undertaking the assassination. Columbus was so certain in
his mission that Queen Isabella pawned her jewels to finance his
expedition. Assert your message with implicit assurance, and your own
belief will act as so much gunpowder to drive it home.

Advertisers have long utilized this principle. "The machine you will
eventually buy," "Ask the man who owns one," "Has the strength of
Gibraltar," are publicity slogans so full of confidence that they give
birth to confidence in the mind of the reader.

It should--but may not!--go without saying that confidence must have a
solid ground of merit or there will be a ridiculous crash. It is all
very well for the "spellbinder" to claim all the precincts--the official
count is just ahead. The reaction against over-confidence and
over-suggestion ought to warn those whose chief asset is mere bluff.

A short time ago a speaker arose in a public-speaking club and asserted
that grass would spring from wood-ashes sprinkled over the soil, without
the aid of seed. This idea was greeted with a laugh, but the speaker was
so sure of his position that he reiterated the statement forcefully
several times and cited his own personal experience as proof. One of
the most intelligent men in the audience, who at first had derided the
idea, at length came to believe in it. When asked the reason for his
sudden change of attitude, he replied: "Because the speaker is so
confident." In fact, he was so confident that it took a letter from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to dislodge his error.

If by a speaker's confidence, intelligent men can be made to believe
such preposterous theories as this where will the power of self-reliance
cease when plausible propositions are under consideration, advanced with
all the power of convincing speech?

Note the utter assurance in these selections:

I know not what course others may take, but as for me give me
    liberty or give me death.

--PATRICK HENRY.

I ne'er will ask ye quarter, and I ne'er will be your slave;
    But I'll swim the sea of slaughter, till I sink beneath its wave.

Come one, come all. This rock shall fly
    From its firm base as soon as I.

--SIR WALTER SCOTT.

Out of the night that covers me,
    Black as the pit from pole to pole,
    I thank whatever Gods may be
    For my unconquerable soul.

In the fell clutch of circumstance
    I have not winced nor cried aloud;
    Under the bludgeonings of chance
    My head is bloody, but unbowed.

Beyond this place of wrath and tears
    Looms but the Horror of the shade,
    And yet the menace of the years
    Finds and shall find me unafraid.

It matters not how strait the gate,
    How charged with punishments the scroll,
    I am the master of my fate;
    I am the captain of my soul.

--WILLIAM ERNEST HENLEY.

_Authority is a factor in suggestion._ We generally accept as truth, and
without criticism, the words of an authority. When he speaks,
contradictory ideas rarely arise in the mind to inhibit the action he
suggests. A judge of the Supreme Court has the power of his words
multiplied by the virtue of his position. The ideas of the U.S.
Commissioner of Immigration on his subject are much more effective and
powerful than those of a soap manufacturer, though the latter may be an
able economist.