But as this man looked into the brook, he leaped off that ash barrel and
managed to catch the trout with his fingers, and sent it to Worcester.
They wrote back that they would give him a five dollar bill for another
such trout as that, not that it was worth that much, but they wished to
help the poor man. So this shoemaker and his wife, now perfectly united,
that five dollar bill in prospect, went out to get another trout. They
went up the stream to its source and down to the brimming river, but not
another trout could they find in the whole stream; and so they came home
disconsolate and went to the minister. The minister didn't know how
trout grew, but he pointed the way. Said he, "Get Seth Green's book, and
that will give you the information you want." They did so, and found all
about the culture of trout. They found that a trout lays thirty-six
hundred eggs every year and every trout gains a quarter of a pound every
year, so that in four years a little trout will furnish four tons per
annum to sell to the market at fifty cents a pound. When they found
that, they said they didn't believe any such story as that, but if they
could get five dollars apiece they could make something. And right in
that same back yard with the coal sifter up stream and window screen
down the stream, they began the culture of trout. They afterwards moved
to the Hudson, and since then he has become the authority in the United
States upon the raising of fish, and he has been next to the highest on
the United States Fish Commission in Washington. My lesson is that man's
wealth was out there in his back yard for twenty years, but he didn't
see it until his wife drove him out with a mop stick.

I remember meeting personally a poor carpenter of Hingham,
Massachusetts, who was out of work and in poverty. His wife also drove
him out of doors. He sat down on the shore and whittled a soaked shingle
into a wooden chain. His children quarreled over it in the evening, and
while he was whittling a second one, a neighbor came along and said,
"Why don't you whittle toys if you can carve like that?" He said, "I
don't know what to make!" There is the whole thing. His neighbor said to
him: "Why don't you ask your own children?" Said he, "What is the use of
doing that? My children are different from other people's children." I
used to see people like that when I taught school. The next morning when
his boy came down the stairway, he said, "Sam, what do you want for a
toy?" "I want a wheelbarrow." When his little girl came down, he asked
her what she wanted, and she said, "I want a little doll's washstand, a
little doll's carriage, a little doll's umbrella," and went on with a
whole lot of things that would have taken his lifetime to supply. He
consulted his own children right there in his own house and began to
whittle out toys to please them. He began with his jack-knife, and made
those unpainted Hingham toys. He is the richest man in the entire New
England States, if Mr. Lawson is to be trusted in his statement
concerning such things, and yet that man's fortune was made by
consulting his own children in his own house. You don't need to go out
of your own house to find out what to invent or what to make. I always
talk too long on this subject.

I would like to meet the great men who are here to-night. The great men!
We don't have any great men in Philadelphia. Great men! You say that
they all come from London, or San Francisco, or Rome, or Manayunk, or
anywhere else but here--anywhere else but Philadelphia--and yet, in
fact, there are just as great men in Philadelphia as in any city of its
size. There are great men and women in this audience. Great men, I have
said, are very simple men. Just as many great men here as are to be
found anywhere. The greatest error in judging great men is that we think
that they always hold an office. The world knows nothing of its greatest
men. Who are the great men of the world? The young man and young woman
may well ask the question. It is not necessary that they should hold an
office, and yet that is the popular idea. That is the idea we teach now
in our high schools and common schools, that the great men of the world
are those who hold some high office, and unless we change that very soon
and do away with that prejudice, we are going to change to an empire.
There is no question about it. We must teach that men are great only on
their intrinsic value, and not on the position that they may
incidentally happen to occupy. And yet, don't blame the young men saying
that they are going to be great when they get into some official
position. I ask this audience again who of you are going to be great?
Says a young man: "I am going to be great." "When are you going to be
great?" "When I am elected to some political office." Won't you learn
the lesson, young man; that it is _prima facie_ evidence of littleness
to hold public office under our form of government? Think of it. This is
a government of the people, and by the people, and for the people, and
not for the office-holder, and if the people in this country rule as
they always should rule, an office-holder is only the servant of the
people, and the Bible says that "the servant cannot be greater than his
master." The Bible says that "he that is sent cannot be greater than him
who sent him." In this country the people are the masters, and the
office-holders can never be greater than the people; they should be
honest servants of the people, but they are not our greatest men. Young
man, remember that you never heard of a great man holding any political
office in this country unless he took that office at an expense to
himself. It is a loss to every great man to take a public office in our
country. Bear this in mind, young man, that you cannot be made great by
a political election.