Phrase books that show the origins of familiar expressions will surprise
most of us by showing how carelessly everyday speech is used. Brewer's
"A Dictionary of Phrase, and Fable," Edwards' "Words, Facts, and
Phrases," and Thornton's "An American Glossary," are all good--the last,
an expensive work in three volumes.

A prefix or a suffix may essentially change the force of the stem, as
in _master-ful_ and _master-ly_, _contempt-ible_ and _contempt-uous,
envi-ous_ and _envi-able_. Thus to study words in groups, according to
their stems, prefixes, and suffixes is to gain a mastery over their
shades of meaning, and introduce us to other related words.

_Do not Favor one Set or Kind of Words more than Another_

"Sixty years and more ago, Lord Brougham, addressing the students of the
University of Glasgow, laid down the rule that the native (Anglo-Saxon)
part of our vocabulary was to be favored at the expense of that other
part which has come from the Latin and Greek. The rule was an impossible
one, and Lord Brougham himself never tried seriously to observe it; nor,
in truth, has any great writer made the attempt. Not only is our
language highly composite, but the component words have, in De Quincey's
phrase, 'happily coalesced.' It is easy to jest at words in _-osity_ and
_-ation_, as 'dictionary' words, and the like. But even Lord Brougham
would have found it difficult to dispense with _pomposity_ and
_imagination_."[34]

The short, vigorous Anglo-Saxon will always be preferred for passages of
special thrust and force, just as the Latin will continue to furnish us
with flowing and smooth expressions; to mingle all sorts, however, will
give variety--and that is most to be desired.

_Discuss Words With Those Who Know Them_

Since the language of the platform follows closely the diction of
everyday speech, many useful words may be acquired in conversation with
cultivated men, and when such discussion takes the form of disputation
as to the meanings and usages of words, it will prove doubly valuable.
The development of word-power marches with the growth of individuality.

_Search Faithfully for the Right Word_

Books of reference are tripled in value when their owner has a passion
for getting the kernels out of their shells. Ten minutes a day will do
wonders for the nut-cracker. "I am growing so peevish about my writing,"
says Flaubert. "I am like a man whose ear is true, but who plays falsely
on the violin: his fingers refuse to reproduce precisely those sounds of
which he has the inward sense. Then the tears come rolling down from the
poor scraper's eyes and the bow falls from his hand."

The same brilliant Frenchman sent this sound advice to his pupil, Guy de
Maupassant: "Whatever may be the thing which one wishes to say, there is
but one word for expressing it, only one verb to animate it, only one
adjective to qualify it. It is essential to search for this word, for
this verb, for this adjective, until they are discovered, and to be
satisfied with nothing else."

Walter Savage Landor once wrote: "I hate false words, and seek with
care, difficulty, and moroseness those that fit the thing." So did
Sentimental Tommy, as related by James M. Barrie in his novel bearing
his hero's name as a title. No wonder T. Sandys became an author and a
lion!

Tommy, with another lad, is writing an essay on "A Day in Church," in
competition for a university scholarship. He gets on finely until he
pauses for lack of a word. For nearly an hour he searches for this
elusive thing, until suddenly he is told that the allotted time is up,
and he has lost! Barrie may tell the rest:

Essay! It was no more an essay than a twig is a tree, for the
    gowk had stuck in the middle of his second page. Yes, stuck is
    the right expression, as his chagrined teacher had to admit when
    the boy was cross-examined. He had not been "up to some of his
    tricks;" he had stuck, and his explanations, as you will admit,
    merely emphasized his incapacity.

He had brought himself to public scorn for lack of a word. What
    word? they asked testily; but even now he could not tell. He had
    wanted a Scotch word that would signify how many people were in
    church, and it was on the tip of his tongue, but would come no
    farther. Puckle was nearly the word, but it did not mean so many
    people as he meant. The hour had gone by just like winking; he
    had forgotten all about time while searching his mind for the
    word.

*       *       *       *       *

The other five [examiners] were furious.... "You little tattie
    doolie," Cathro roared, "were there not a dozen words to wile
    from if you had an ill-will to puckle? What ailed you at manzy,
    or--"

"I thought of manzy," replied Tommy, woefully, for he was
    ashamed of himself, "but--but a manzy's a swarm. It would mean
    that the folk in the kirk were buzzing thegither like bees,
    instead of sitting still."

"Even if it does mean that," said Mr. Duthie, with impatience,
    "what was the need of being so particular? Surely the art of
    essay-writing consists in using the first word that comes and
    hurrying on."

"That's how I did," said the proud McLauchlan [Tommy's
    successful competitor]....

"I see," interposed Mr. Gloag, "that McLauchlan speaks of there
    being a mask of people in the church. Mask is a fine Scotch
    word."

"I thought of mask," whimpered Tommy, "but that would mean the
    kirk was crammed, and I just meant it to be middling full."

"Flow would have done," suggested Mr. Lonimer.

"Flow's but a handful," said Tommy.

"Curran, then, you jackanapes!"

"Curran's no enough."

Mr. Lorrimer flung up his hands in despair.

"I wanted something between curran and mask," said Tommy,
    doggedly, yet almost at the crying.

Mr. Ogilvy, who had been hiding his admiration with difficulty,
    spread a net for him. "You said you wanted a word that meant
    middling full. Well, why did you not say middling full--or fell
    mask?"