The speaker's most valuable possession is personality--that indefinable,
imponderable something which sums up what we are, and makes us different
from others; that distinctive force of self which operates appreciably
on those whose lives we touch. It is personality alone that makes us
long for higher things. Rob us of our sense of individual life, with its
gains and losses, its duties and joys, and we grovel. "Few human
creatures," says John Stuart Mill, "would consent to be changed into any
of the lower animals for a promise of the fullest allowance of a beast's
pleasures; no intelligent human being would consent to be a fool, no
instructed person would be an ignoramus, no person of feeling and
conscience would be selfish and base, even though he should be persuaded
that the fool, or the dunce, or the rascal is better satisfied with his
lot than they with theirs.... It is better to be a human being
dissatisfied than a pig satisfied, better to be a Socrates dissatisfied
than a fool satisfied. And if the fool or the pig is of a different
opinion, it is only because they know only their own side of the
question. The other party to the comparison knows both sides."

Now it is precisely because the Socrates type of person lives on the
plan of right thinking and restrained feeling and willing that he
prefers his state to that of the animal. All that a man is, all his
happiness, his sorrow, his achievements, his failures, his magnetism,
his weakness, all are in an amazingly large measure the direct results
of his thinking. Thought and heart combine to produce _right_ thinking:
"As a man thinketh in his heart so is he." As he does not think in his
heart so he can never become.

Since this is true, personality can be developed and its latent powers
brought out by careful cultivation. We have long since ceased to believe
that we are living in a realm of chance. So clear and exact are nature's
laws that we forecast, scores of years in advance, the appearance of a
certain comet and foretell to the minute an eclipse of the Sun. And we
understand this law of cause and effect in all our material realms. We
do not plant potatoes and expect to pluck hyacinths. The law is
universal: it applies to our mental powers, to morality, to personality,
quite as much as to the heavenly bodies and the grain of the fields.
"Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap," and nothing else.

Character has always been regarded as one of the chief factors of the
speaker's power. Cato defined the orator as _vir bonus dicendi
peritus_--a good man skilled in speaking. Phillips Brooks says: "Nobody
can truly stand as a utterer before the world, unless he be profoundly
living and earnestly thinking." "Character," says Emerson, "is a
natural power, like light and heat, and all nature cooperates with it.
The reason why we feel one man's presence, and do not feel another's is
as simple as gravity. Truth is the summit of being: justice is the
application of it to affairs. All individual natures stand in a scale,
according to the purity of this element in them. The will of the pure
runs down into other natures, as water runs down from a higher into a
lower vessel. This natural force is no more to be withstood than any
other natural force.... Character is nature in the highest form."

It is absolutely impossible for impure, bestial and selfish thoughts to
blossom into loving and altruistic habits. Thistle seeds bring forth
only the thistle. Contrariwise, it is entirely impossible for continual
altruistic, sympathetic, and serviceful thoughts to bring forth a low
and vicious character. Either thoughts or feelings precede and determine
all our actions. Actions develop into habits, habits constitute
character, and character determines destiny. Therefore to guard our
thoughts and control our feelings is to shape our destinies. The
syllogism is complete, and old as it is it is still true.

Since "character is nature in the highest form," the development of
character must proceed on natural lines. The garden left to itself will
bring forth weeds and scrawny plants, but the flower-beds nurtured
carefully will blossom into fragrance and beauty.

As the student entering college largely determines his vocation by
choosing from the different courses of the curriculum, so do we choose
our characters by choosing our thoughts. We are steadily going up
toward that which we most wish for, or steadily sinking to the level of
our low desires. What we secretly cherish in our hearts is a symbol of
what we shall receive. Our trains of thoughts are hurrying us on to our
destiny. When you see the flag fluttering to the South, you know the
wind is coming from the North. When you see the straws and papers being
carried to the Northward you realize the wind is blowing out of the
South. It is just as easy to ascertain a man's thoughts by observing the
tendency of his character.

Let it not be suspected for one moment that all this is merely a
preachment on the question of morals. It is that, but much more, for it
touches the whole man--his imaginative nature, his ability to control
his feelings, the mastery of his thinking faculties, and--perhaps most
largely--his power to will and to carry his volitions into effective
action.

Right thinking constantly assumes that the will sits enthroned to
execute the dictates of mind, conscience and heart. _Never tolerate for
an instant the suggestion that your will is not absolutely efficient._
The way to will is to will--and the very first time you are tempted to
break a worthy resolution--and you will be, you may be certain of
that--_make your fight then and there_. You cannot afford to lose that
fight. You _must_ win it--don't swerve for an instant, but keep that
resolution if it kills you. It will not, but you must fight just as
though life depended on the victory; and indeed your personality may
actually lie in the balances!