Marius, the man who rose to be seven times consul, was in a
    dungeon, and a slave was sent in with commission to put him to
    death. These were the persons,--the two extremities of exalted
    and forlorn humanity, its vanward and its rearward man, a Roman
    consul and an abject slave. But their natural relations to each
    other were, by the caprice of fortune, monstrously inverted: the
    consul was in chains; the slave was for a moment the arbiter of
    his fate. By what spells, what magic, did Marius reinstate
    himself in his natural prerogatives? By what marvels drawn from
    heaven or from earth, did he, in the twinkling of an eye, again
    invest himself with the purple, and place between himself and
    his assassin a host of shadowy lictors? By the mere blank
    supremacy of great minds over weak ones. He _fascinated_ the
    slave, as a rattlesnake does a bird. Standing "like Teneriffe,"
    he smote him with his eye, and said, "_Tune, homo, audes
    occidere C. Marium?_"--"Dost thou, fellow, presume to kill Caius
    Marius?" Whereat, the reptile, quaking under the voice, nor
    daring to affront the consular eye, sank gently to the
    ground--turned round upon his hands and feet--and, crawling out
    of the prison like any other vermin, left Marius standing in
    solitude as steadfast and immovable as the capitol.

--THOMAS DE QUINCY.

Here is a similar example, prefaced by a general historical statement
and concluding with autobiographical details:

_A REMINISCENCE OF LEXINGTON_

One raw morning in spring--it will be eighty years the 19th day
    of this month--Hancock and Adams, the Moses and Aaron of that
    Great Deliverance, were both at Lexington; they also had
    "obstructed an officer" with brave words. British soldiers, a
    thousand strong, came to seize them and carry them over sea for
    trial, and so nip the bud of Freedom auspiciously opening in
    that early spring. The town militia came together before
    daylight, "for training." A great, tall man, with a large head
    and a high, wide brow, their captain,--one who had "seen
    service,"--marshalled them into line, numbering but seventy, and
    bade "every man load his piece with powder and ball. I will
    order the first man shot that runs away," said he, when some
    faltered. "Don't fire unless fired upon, but if they want to
    have a war, let it begin here."

Gentlemen, you know what followed; those farmers and mechanics
    "fired the shot heard round the world." A little monument covers
    the bones of such as before had pledged their fortune and their
    sacred honor to the Freedom of America, and that day gave it
    also their lives. I was born in that little town, and bred up
    amid the memories of that day. When a boy, my mother lifted me
    up, one Sunday, in her religious, patriotic arms, and held me
    while I read the first monumental line I ever saw--"Sacred to
    Liberty and the Rights of Mankind."

Since then I have studied the memorial marbles of Greece and
    Rome, in many an ancient town; nay, on Egyptian obelisks have
    read what was written before the Eternal raised up Moses to lead
    Israel out of Egypt; but no chiseled stone has ever stirred me
    to such emotion as these rustic names of men who fell "In the
    Sacred Cause of God and their Country."

Gentlemen, the Spirit of Liberty, the Love of Justice, were
    early fanned into a flame in my boyish heart. That monument
    covers the bones of my own kinsfolk; it was their blood which
    reddened the long, green grass at Lexington. It was my own name
    which stands chiseled on that stone; the tall captain who
    marshalled his fellow farmers and mechanics into stern array,
    and spoke such brave and dangerous words as opened the war of
    American Independence,--the last to leave the field,--was my
    father's father. I learned to read out of his Bible, and with a
    musket he that day captured from the foe, I learned another
    religious lesson, that "Rebellion to Tyrants is Obedience to
    God." I keep them both "Sacred to Liberty and the Rights of
    Mankind," to use them both "In the Sacred Cause of God and my
    Country."

--THEODORE PARKER.

_Narration of Events in General_

In this wider, emancipated narration we find much mingling of other
forms of discourse, greatly to the advantage of the speech, for this
truth cannot be too strongly emphasized: The efficient speaker cuts
loose from form for the sake of a big, free effect. The present analyses
are for no other purpose than to _acquaint_ you with form--do not allow
any such models to hang as a weight about your neck.

The following pure narration of events, from George William Curtis's
"Paul Revere's Ride," varies the biographical recital in other parts of
his famous oration:

That evening, at ten o'clock, eight hundred British troops,
    under Lieutenant-Colonel Smith, took boat at the foot of the
    Common and crossed to the Cambridge shore. Gage thought his
    secret had been kept, but Lord Percy, who had heard the people
    say on the Common that the troops would miss their aim,
    undeceived him. Gage instantly ordered that no one should leave
    the town. But as the troops crossed the river, Ebenezer Dorr,
    with a message to Hancock and Adams, was riding over the Neck to
    Roxbury, and Paul Revere was rowing over the river to
    Charlestown, having agreed with his friend, Robert Newman, to
    show lanterns from the belfry of the Old North Church--"One if
    by land, and two if by sea"--as a signal of the march of the
    British.

The following, from the same oration, beautifully mingles description
with narration: