If you want power in this country; if you want to make
    yourselves felt; if you do not want your children to wait long
    years before they have the bread on the table they ought to
    have, the leisure in their lives they ought to have, the
    opportunities in life they ought to have; if you don't want to
    wait yourselves,--write on your banner, so that every political
    trimmer can read it, so that every politician, no matter how
    short-sighted he may be, can read it, "_WE NEVER FORGET!_ If you
    launch the arrow of sarcasm at labor, _WE NEVER FORGET!_ If
    there is a division in Congress, and you throw your vote in the
    wrong scale, _WE NEVER FORGET!_ You may go down on your knees,
    and say, 'I am sorry I did the act'--but we will say '_IT WILL
    AVAIL YOU IN HEAVEN TO BE SORRY, BUT ON THIS SIDE OF THE GRAVE,
    NEVER!_'" So that a man in taking up the labor question will
    know he is dealing with a hair-trigger pistol, and will say, "I
    am to be true to justice and to man; otherwise I am a dead
    duck."

*       *       *       *       *

In Russia there is no press, no debate, no explanation of what
    government does, no remonstrance allowed, no agitation of public
    issues. Dead silence, like that which reigns at the summit of
    Mont Blanc, freezes the whole empire, long ago described as "a
    despotism tempered by assassination." Meanwhile, such despotism
    has unsettled the brains of the ruling family, as unbridled
    power doubtless made some of the twelve Caesars insane; a madman,
    sporting with the lives and comfort of a hundred millions of
    men. The young girl whispers in her mother's ear, under a ceiled
    roof, her pity for a brother knouted and dragged half dead into
    exile for his opinions. The next week she is stripped naked and
    flogged to death in the public square. No inquiry, no
    explanation, no trial, no protest, one dead uniform silence, the
    law of the tyrant. Where is there ground for any hope of
    peaceful change? No, no! in such a land dynamite and the dagger
    are the necessary and proper substitutes for Faneuil Hall.
    Anything that will make the madman quake in his bedchamber, and
    rouse his victims into reckless and desperate resistance. This
    is the only view an American, the child of 1620 and 1776, can
    take of Nihilism. Any other unsettles and perplexes the ethics
    of our civilization.

Born within sight of Bunker Hill--son of Harvard, whose first
    pledge was "Truth," citizen of a republic based on the claim
    that no government is rightful unless resting on the consent of
    the people, and which assumes to lead in asserting the rights of
    humanity--I at least can say nothing else and nothing less--no
    not if every tile on Cambridge roofs were a devil hooting my
    words!

For practise on forceful selections, use "The Irrepressible Conflict,"
page 67; "Abraham Lincoln," page 76, "Pass Prosperity Around," page 470;
"A Plea for Cuba," page 50.

[Footnote 2: Those who sat in the pit or the parquet.]

[Footnote 3: _Hamlet_, Act III, Scene 2.]

FEELING AND ENTHUSIASM

Enthusiasm is that secret and harmonious spirit that hovers over
    the production of genius.

--ISAAC DISRAELI, _Literary Character_.

If you are addressing a body of scientists on such a subject as the
veins in a butterfly's wings, or on road structure, naturally your theme
will not arouse much feeling in either you or your audience. These are
purely mental subjects. But if you want men to vote for a measure that
will abolish child labor, or if you would inspire them to take up arms
for freedom, you must strike straight at their feelings. We lie on soft
beds, sit near the radiator on a cold day, eat cherry pie, and devote
our attention to one of the opposite sex, not because we have reasoned
out that it is the right thing to do, but because it feels right. No one
but a dyspeptic chooses his diet from a chart. Our feelings dictate what
we shall eat and generally how we shall act. Man is a feeling animal,
hence the public speaker's ability to arouse men to action depends
almost wholly on his ability to touch their emotions.

Negro mothers on the auction-block seeing their children sold away from
them into slavery have flamed out some of America's most stirring
speeches. True, the mother did not have any knowledge of the technique
of speaking, but she had something greater than all technique, more
effective than reason: feeling. The great speeches of the world have
not been delivered on tariff reductions or post-office appropriations.
The speeches that will live have been charged with emotional force.
Prosperity and peace are poor developers of eloquence. When great wrongs
are to be righted, when the public heart is flaming with passion, that
is the occasion for memorable speaking. Patrick Henry made an immortal
address, for in an epochal crisis he pleaded for liberty. He had roused
himself to the point where he could honestly and passionately exclaim,
"Give me liberty or give me death." His fame would have been different
had he lived to-day and argued for the recall of judges.

_The Power of Enthusiasm_

Political parties hire bands, and pay for applause--they argue that, for
vote-getting, to stir up enthusiasm is more effective than reasoning.
How far they are right depends on the hearers, but there can be no doubt
about the contagious nature of enthusiasm. A watch manufacturer in New
York tried out two series of watch advertisements; one argued the
superior construction, workmanship, durability, and guarantee offered
with the watch; the other was headed, "A Watch to be Proud of," and
dwelt upon the pleasure and pride of ownership. The latter series sold
twice as many as the former. A salesman for a locomotive works informed
the writer that in selling railroad engines emotional appeal was
stronger than an argument based on mechanical excellence.