If you have attended many travel talks you must have been impressed by
the painful extremes to which the lecturers go--with a few notable
exceptions, their language is either over-ornate or crude. If you would
learn the power of words to make scenery, yes, even houses, palpitate
with poetry and human appeal, read Lafcadio Hearn, Robert Louis
Stevenson, Pierre Loti, and Edmondo De Amicis.

Blue-distant, a mountain of carven stone appeared before
    them,--the Temple, lifting to heaven its wilderness of chiseled
    pinnacles, flinging to the sky the golden spray of its
    decoration.

--LAFCADIO HEARN, _Chinese Ghosts_.

The stars were clear, colored, and jewel-like, but not frosty. A
    faint silvery vapour stood for the Milky Way. All around me the
    black fir-points stood upright and stock-still. By the whiteness
    of the pack-saddle I could see Modestine walking round and round
    at the length of her tether; I could hear her steadily munching
    at the sward; but there was not another sound save the
    indescribable quiet talk of the runnel over the stones.

--ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON, _Travels with a Donkey_.

It was full autumn now, late autumn--with the nightfalls gloomy,
    and all things growing dark early in the old cottage, and all
    the Breton land looking sombre, too. The very days seemed but
    twilight; immeasurable clouds, slowly passing, would suddenly
    bring darkness at broad noon. The wind moaned constantly--it was
    like the sound of a great cathedral organ at a distance, but
    playing profane airs, or despairing dirges; at other times it
    would come close to the door, and lift up a howl like wild
    beasts.

--PIERRE LOTI, _An Iceland Fisherman_.

I see the great refectory,[22] where a battalion might have
    drilled; I see the long tables, the five hundred heads bent
    above the plates, the rapid motion of five hundred forks, of a
    thousand hands, and sixteen thousand teeth; the swarm of
    servants running here and there, called to, scolded, hurried, on
    every side at once; I hear the clatter of dishes, the deafening
    noise, the voices choked with food crying out: "Bread--bread!"
    and I feel once more the formidable appetite, the herculean
    strength of jaw, the exuberant life and spirits of those far-off
    days.[23]

--EDMONDO DE AMICIS, _College Friends_.

_Suggestions for the Use of Description_

Decide, on beginning a description, what point of view you wish your
hearers to take. One cannot see either a mountain or a man on all sides
at once. Establish a view-point, and do not shift without giving notice.

Choose an attitude toward your subject--shall it be idealized?
caricatured? ridiculed? exaggerated? defended? or described impartially?

Be sure of your mood, too, for it will color the subject to be
described. Melancholy will make a rose-garden look gray.

Adopt an order in which you will proceed--do not shift backward and
forward from near to far, remote to close in time, general to
particular, large to small, important to unimportant, concrete to
abstract, physical to mental; but follow your chosen order. Scattered
and shifting observations produce hazy impressions just as a moving
camera spoils the time-exposure.

Do not go into needless minutiae. Some details identify a thing with its
class, while other details differentiate it from its class. Choose only
the significant, suggestive characteristics and bring those out with
terse vividness. Learn a lesson from the few strokes used by the poster
artist.

In determining what to describe and what merely to name, seek to read
the knowledge of your audience. The difference to them between the
unknown and the known is a vital one also to you.

Relentlessly cut out all ideas and words not necessary to produce the
effect you desire. Each element in a mental picture either helps or
hinders. Be sure they do not hinder, for they cannot be passively
present in any discourse.

Interruptions of the description to make side-remarks are as powerful to
destroy unity as are scattered descriptive phrases. The only visual
impression that can be effective is one that is unified.

In describing, try to call up the emotions you felt when first you saw
the scene, and then try to reproduce those emotions in your hearers.
Description is primarily emotional in its appeal; nothing can be more
deadly dull than a cold, unemotional outline, while nothing leaves a
warmer impression than a glowing, spirited description.

Give a swift and vivid general view at the close of the portrayal. First
and final impressions remain the longest. The mind may be trained to
take in the characteristic points of a subject, so as to view in a
single scene, action, experience, or character, a unified impression of
the whole. To describe a thing as a whole you must first see it as a
whole. Master that art and you have mastered description to the last
degree.

SELECTIONS FOR PRACTISE

_THE HOMES OF THE PEOPLE_

I went to Washington the other day, and I stood on the Capitol
    Hill; my heart beat quick as I looked at the towering marble of
    my country's Capitol and the mist gathered in my eyes as I
    thought of its tremendous significance, and the armies and the
    treasury, and the judges and the President, and the Congress and
    the courts, and all that was gathered there. And I felt that the
    sun in all its course could not look down on a better sight than
    that majestic home of a republic that had taught the world its
    best lessons of liberty. And I felt that if honor and wisdom and
    justice abided therein, the world would at last owe to that
    great house in which the ark of the covenant of my country is
    lodged, its final uplifting and its regeneration.