(_a_) Are the antecedent conditions such as would make the
allegation probable? (Character and opportunities of the accused, for
example.)

(_b_) Are the signs that point to the inference either clear
or numerous enough to warrant its acceptance as fact?

(_c_) Are the signs cumulative, and agreeable one with the other?

(_d_) Could the signs be made to point to a contrary conclusion?

5. _Syllogisms_

(_a_) Have any steps been omitted in the syllogisms?
(Such as in a syllogism _in enthymeme_.) If so, test any such by
filling out the syllogisms.

(_b_) Have you been guilty of stating a conclusion that really
does not follow? (A _non sequitur_.)

(_c_) Can your syllogism be reduced to an absurdity?
(_Reductio ad absurdum._)

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Show why an unsupported assertion is not an argument.

2. Illustrate how an irrelevant fact may be made to seem to support an
argument.

3. What inferences may justly be made from the following?

During the Boer War it was found that the average Englishman did
    not measure up to the standards of recruiting and the average
    soldier in the field manifested a low plane of vitality and
    endurance. Parliament, alarmed by the disastrous consequences,
    instituted an investigation. The commission appointed brought in
    a finding that alcoholic poisoning was the great cause of the
    national degeneracy. The investigations of the commission have
    been supplemented by investigations of scientific bodies and
    individual scientists, all arriving at the same conclusion. As a
    consequence, the British Government has placarded the streets
    of a hundred cities with billboards setting forth the
    destructive and degenerating nature of alcohol and appealing to
    the people in the name of the nation to desist from drinking
    alcoholic beverages. Under efforts directed by the Government
    the British Army is fast becoming an army of total abstainers.

The Governments of continental Europe followed the lead of the
    British Government. The French Government has placarded France
    with appeals to the people, attributing the decline of the birth
    rate and increase in the death rate to the widespread use of
    alcoholic beverages. The experience of the German Government has
    been the same. The German Emperor has clearly stated that
    leadership in war and in peace will be held by the nation that
    roots out alcohol. He has undertaken to eliminate even the
    drinking of beer, so far as possible, from the German Army and
    Navy.

--RICHMOND PEARSON HOBSON, _Before the U.S. Congress_.

4. Since the burden of proof lies on him who attacks a position, or
argues for a change in affairs, how would his opponent be likely to
conduct his own part of a debate?

5. Define (_a_) syllogism; (_b_) rebuttal; (_c_) "begging the question;"
(_d_) premise; (_e_) rejoinder; (_f_) sur-rejoinder; (_g_) dilemma;
(_h_) induction; (_i_) deduction; (_j_) _a priori_; (_k_) _a
posteriori_; (_l_) inference.

6. Criticise this reasoning:

Men ought not to smoke tobacco, because to do so is contrary to
    best medical opinion. My physician has expressly condemned the
    practise, and is a medical authority in this country.

7. Criticise this reasoning:

Men ought not to swear profanely, because it is wrong. It is
    wrong for the reason that it is contrary to the Moral Law, and
    it is contrary to the Moral Law because it is contrary to the
    Scriptures. It is contrary to the Scriptures because it is
    contrary to the will of God, and we know it is contrary to
    God's will because it is wrong.

8. Criticise this syllogism:

MAJOR PREMISE: All men who have no cares are happy.
  MINOR PREMISE: Slovenly men are careless.
  CONCLUSION: Therefore, slovenly men are happy.

9. Criticise the following major, or foundation, premises:

All is not gold that glitters.

All cold may be expelled by fire.

10. Criticise the following fallacy (_non sequitur_):

MAJOR PREMISE: All strong men admire strength.
  MINOR PREMISE: This man is not strong.
  CONCLUSION: Therefore this man does not admire strength.

11. Criticise these statements:

Sleep is beneficial on account of its soporific qualities.

Fiske's histories are authentic because they contain accurate
    accounts of American history, and we know that they are true
    accounts for otherwise they would not be contained in these
    authentic works.

12. What do you understand from the terms "reasoning from effect to
cause" and "from cause to effect?" Give examples.

13. What principle did Richmond Pearson Hobson employ in the following?

What is the police power of the States? The police power of the
    Federal Government or the State--any sovereign State--has been
    defined. Take the definition given by Blackstone, which is:

The due regulation and domestic order of the Kingdom,
        whereby the inhabitants of a State, like members
        of a well-governed family, are bound to conform their
        general behavior to the rules of propriety, of neighborhood
        and good manners, and to be decent, industrious,
        and inoffensive in their respective stations.

Would this amendment interfere with any State carrying on the
    promotion of its domestic order?

Or you can take the definition in another form, in which it is
    given by Mr. Tiedeman, when he says:

The object of government is to impose that degree of
        restraint upon human actions which is necessary to a
        uniform, reasonable enjoyment of private rights. The
        power of the government to impose this restraint is
        called the police power.

Judge Cooley says of the liquor traffic: