It was a brilliant night. The winter had been unusually mild,
    and the spring very forward. The hills were already green. The
    early grain waved in the fields, and the air was sweet with the
    blossoming orchards. Already the robins whistled, the bluebirds
    sang, and the benediction of peace rested upon the landscape.
    Under the cloudless moon the soldiers silently marched, and Paul
    Revere swiftly rode, galloping through Medford and West
    Cambridge, rousing every house as he went spurring for Lexington
    and Hancock and Adams, and evading the British patrols who had
    been sent out to stop the news.

In the succeeding extract from another of Mr. Curtis's addresses, we
have a free use of allegory as illustration:

_THE LEADERSHIP OF EDUCATED MEN_

There is a modern English picture which the genius of Hawthorne
    might have inspired. The painter calls it, "How they met
    themselves." A man and a woman, haggard and weary, wandering
    lost in a somber wood, suddenly meet the shadowy figures of a
    youth and a maid. Some mysterious fascination fixes the gaze and
    stills the hearts of the wanderers, and their amazement deepens
    into awe as they gradually recognize themselves as once they
    were; the soft bloom of youth upon their rounded cheeks, the
    dewy light of hope in their trusting eyes, exulting confidence
    in their springing step, themselves blithe and radiant with the
    glory of the dawn. Today, and here, we meet ourselves. Not to
    these familiar scenes alone--yonder college-green with its
    reverend traditions; the halcyon cove of the Seekonk, upon which
    the memory of Roger Williams broods like a bird of calm; the
    historic bay, beating forever with the muffled oars of Barton
    and of Abraham Whipple; here, the humming city of the living;
    there, the peaceful city of the dead;--not to these only or
    chiefly do we return, but to ourselves as we once were. It is
    not the smiling freshmen of the year, it is your own beardless
    and unwrinkled faces, that are looking from the windows of
    University Hall and of Hope College. Under the trees upon the
    hill it is yourselves whom you see walking, full of hopes and
    dreams, glowing with conscious power, and "nourishing a youth
    sublime;" and in this familiar temple, which surely has never
    echoed with eloquence so fervid and inspiring as that of your
    commencement orations, it is not yonder youths in the galleries
    who, as they fondly believe, are whispering to yonder maids; it
    is your younger selves who, in the days that are no more, are
    murmuring to the fairest mothers and grandmothers of those
    maids.

Happy the worn and weary man and woman in the picture could they
    have felt their older eyes still glistening with that earlier
    light, and their hearts yet beating with undiminished sympathy
    and aspiration. Happy we, brethren, whatever may have been
    achieved, whatever left undone, if, returning to the home of our
    earlier years, we bring with us the illimitable hope, the
    unchilled resolution, the inextinguishable faith of youth.

--GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Clip from any source ten anecdotes and state what truths they may be
used to illustrate.

2. Deliver five of these in your own language, without making any
application.

3. From the ten, deliver one so as to make the application before
telling the anecdote.

4. Deliver another so as to split the application.

5. Deliver another so as to make the application after the narration.

6. Deliver another in such a way as to make a specific application
needless.

7. Give three ways of introducing an anecdote, by saying where you heard
it, etc.

8. Deliver an illustration that is not strictly an anecdote, in the
style of Curtis's speech on page 259.

9. Deliver an address on any public character, using the forms
illustrated in this chapter.

10. Deliver an address on some historical event in the same manner.

11. Explain how the sympathies and viewpoint of the speaker will color
an anecdote, a biography, or a historical account.

12. Illustrate how the same anecdote, or a section of a historical
address, may be given two different effects by personal prejudice.

13. What would be the effect of shifting the viewpoint in the midst of a
narration?

14. What is the danger of using too much humor in an address? Too much
pathos?

[Footnote 24: _How to Attract and Hold an Audience_, J. Berg Esenwein.]

CHAPTER XXII

INFLUENCING BY SUGGESTION

Sometimes the feeling that a given way of looking at things is
    undoubtedly correct prevents the mind from thinking at all....
    In view of the hindrances which certain kinds or degrees of
    feeling throw into the way of thinking, it might be inferred
    that the thinker must suppress the element of feeling in the
    inner life. No greater mistake could be made. If the Creator
    endowed man with the power to think, to feel, and to will, these
    several activities of the mind are not designed to be in
    conflict, and so long as any one of them is not perverted or
    allowed to run to excess, it necessarily aids and strengthens
    the others in their normal functions.

--NATHAN C. SCHAEFFER, _Thinking and Learning to Think_.

When we weigh, compare, and decide upon the value of any given ideas, we
reason; when an idea produces in us an opinion or an action, without
first being subjected to deliberation, we are moved by suggestion.