Clang! Clang! Clang! the fire-bells! Bing! Bing! Bing! the
    alarm! In an instant quiet turns to uproar--an outburst of
    noise, excitement, clamor--bedlam broke loose; Bing! Bing! Bing!
    Rattle, clash and clatter. Open fly the doors; brave men mount
    their boxes. Bing! Bing! Bing! They're off! The horses tear down
    the street like mad. Bing! Bing! Bing! goes the gong!

"Get out of the track! The engines are coming! For God's sake,
    snatch that child from the road!"

On, on, wildly, resolutely, madly fly the steeds. Bing! Bing!
    the gong. Away dash the horses on the wings of fevered fury. On
    whirls the machine, down streets, around corners, up this avenue
    and across that one, out into the very bowels of darkness,
    whiffing, wheezing, shooting a million sparks from the stack,
    paving the path of startled night with a galaxy of stars. Over
    the house-tops to the north, a volcanic burst of flame shoots
    out, belching with blinding effect. The sky is ablaze. A
    tenement house is burning. Five hundred souls are in peril.
    Merciful Heaven! Spare the victims! Are the engines coming? Yes,
    here they are, dashing down the street. Look! the horses ride
    upon the wind; eyes bulging like balls of fire; nostrils wide
    open. A palpitating billow of fire, rolling, plunging, bounding
    rising, falling, swelling, heaving, and with mad passion
    bursting its red-hot sides asunder, reaching out its arms,
    encircling, squeezing, grabbing up, swallowing everything before
    it with the hot, greedy mouth of an appalling monster.

How the horses dash around the corner! Animal instinct say you?
    Aye, more. Brute reason.

"Up the ladders, men!"

The towering building is buried in bloated banks of savage,
    biting elements. Forked tongues dart out and in, dodge here and
    there, up and down, and wind their cutting edges around every
    object. A crash, a dull, explosive sound, and a puff of smoke
    leaps out. At the highest point upon the roof stands a dark
    figure in a desperate strait, the hands making frantic gestures,
    the arms swinging wildly--and then the body shoots off into
    frightful space, plunging upon the pavement with a revolting
    thud. The man's arm strikes a bystander as he darts down. The
    crowd shudders, sways, and utters a low murmur of pity and
    horror. The faint-hearted lookers-on hide their faces. One woman
    swoons away.

"Poor fellow! Dead!" exclaims a laborer, as he looks upon the
    man's body.

"Aye, Joe, and I knew him well, too! He lived next door to me,
    five flights back. He leaves a widowed mother and two wee bits
    of orphans. I helped him bury his wife a fortnight ago. Ah, Joe!
    but it's hard lines for the orphans."

A ghastly hour moves on, dragging its regiment of panic in its
    trail and leaving crimson blotches of cruelty along the path of
    night.

"Are they all out, firemen?"

"Aye, aye, sir!"

"No, they're not! There's a woman in the top window holding a
    child in her arms--over yonder in the right-hand corner! The
    ladders, there! A hundred pounds to the man who makes the
    rescue!"

A dozen start. One man more supple than the others, and reckless
    in his bravery, clambers to the top rung of the ladder.

"Too short!" he cries. "Hoist another!"

Up it goes. He mounts to the window, fastens the rope, lashes
    mother and babe, swings them off into ugly emptiness, and lets
    them down to be rescued by his comrades.

"Bravo, fireman!" shouts the crowd.

A crash breaks through the uproar of crackling timbers.

"Look alive, up there! Great God! The roof has fallen!"

The walls sway, rock, and tumble in with a deafening roar. The
    spectators cease to breathe. The cold truth reveals itself. The
    fireman has been carried into the seething furnace. An old
    woman, bent with the weight of age, rushes through the fire
    line, shrieking, raving, and wringing her hands and opening her
    heart of grief.

"Poor John! He was all I had! And a brave lad he was, too! But
    he's gone now. He lost his own life in savin' two more, and
    now--now he's there, away in there!" she repeats, pointing to
    the cruel oven.

The engines do their work. The flames die out. An eerie gloom
    hangs over the ruins like a formidable, blackened pall.

And the noon of night is passed.

--ARDENNES JONES-FOSTER.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

1. Write two paragraphs on one of these: the race horse, the motor boat,
golfing, tennis; let the first be pure exposition and the second pure
description.

2. Select your own theme and do the same in two short extemporaneous
speeches.

3. Deliver a short original address in the over-ornamented style.

4. (_a_) Point out its defects; (_b_) recast it in a more effective
style; (_c_) show how the one surpasses the other.

5. Make a list of ten subjects which lend themselves to description in
the style you prefer.

6. Deliver a two-minute speech on any one of them, using chiefly, but
not solely, description.

7. For one minute, look at any object, scene, action, picture, or
person you choose, take two minutes to arrange your thoughts, and then
deliver a short description--all without making written notes.

8. In what sense is description more _personal_ than exposition?

9. Explain the difference between a scientific and an artistic
description.

10. In the style of Dickens and Irving (pages 234, 235), write five
separate sentences describing five characters by means of
suggestion--one sentence to each.

11. Describe a character by means of a hint, after the manner of Chaucer
(p. 235).

12. Read aloud the following with special attention to gesture: