Recall, again for experiment, some scene whose beginning you once saw
enacted on a street corner but passed by before the denouement was ready
to be disclosed. Recall it all--that far the image is reproductive. But
what followed? Let your fantasy roam at pleasure--the succeeding scenes
are productive, for you have more or less consciously invented the
unreal on the basis of the real.

And just here the fictionist, the poet, and the public speaker will see
the value of productive imagery. True, the feet of the idol you build
are on the ground, but its head pierces the clouds, it is a son of both
earth and heaven.

One fact it is important to note here: Imagery is a valuable mental
asset in proportion as it is controlled by the higher intellectual power
of pure reason. The untutored child of nature thinks largely in images
and therefore attaches to them undue importance. He readily confuses the
real with the unreal--to him they are of like value. But the man of
training readily distinguishes the one from the other and evaluates each
with some, if not with perfect, justice.

So we see that unrestrained imaging may produce a rudderless steamer,
while the trained faculty is the graceful sloop, skimming the seas at
her skipper's will, her course steadied by the helm of reason and her
lightsome wings catching every air of heaven.

The game of chess, the war-lord's tactical plan, the evolution of a
geometrical theorem, the devising of a great business campaign, the
elimination of waste in a factory, the denouement of a powerful drama,
the overcoming of an economic obstacle, the scheme for a sublime poem,
and the convincing siege of an audience may--nay, indeed must--each be
conceived in an image and wrought to reality according to the plans and
specifications laid upon the trestle board by some modern imaginative
Hiram. The farmer who would be content with the seed he possesses would
have no harvest. Do not rest satisfied with the ability to recall
images, but cultivate your creative imagination by building "what might
be" upon the foundation of "what is."

II. THE USES OF IMAGING IN PUBLIC SPEAKING

By this time you will have already made some general application of
these ideas to the art of the platform, but to several specific uses we
must now refer.

_1. Imaging in Speech-Preparation_

(a) _Set the image of your audience before you while you prepare._
Disappointment may lurk here, and you cannot be forearmed for every
emergency, but in the main you must meet your audience before you
actually do--image its probable mood and attitude toward the occasion,
the theme, and the speaker.

(b) _Conceive your speech as a whole while you are preparing its parts_,
else can you not see--image--how its parts shall be fitly framed
together.

(c) _Image the language you will use_, so far as written or
extemporaneous speech may dictate. The habit of imaging will give you
choice of varied figures of speech, for remember that an address without
_fresh_ comparisons is like a garden without blooms. Do not be content
with the first hackneyed figure that comes flowing to your pen-point,
but dream on until the striking, the unusual, yet the vividly real
comparison points your thought like steel does the arrow-tip.

Note the freshness and effectiveness of the following description from
the opening of O. Henry's story, "The Harbinger."

Long before the springtide is felt in the dull bosom of the
    yokel does the city man know that the grass-green goddess is
    upon her throne. He sits at his breakfast eggs and toast, begirt
    by stone walls, opens his morning paper and sees journalism
    leave vernalism at the post.

For whereas Spring's couriers were once the evidence of our
    finer senses, now the Associated Press does the trick.

The warble of the first robin in Hackensack, the stirring of the
    maple sap in Bennington, the budding of the pussy willows along
    the main street in Syracuse, the first chirp of the blue bird,
    the swan song of the blue point, the annual tornado in St.
    Louis, the plaint of the peach pessimist from Pompton, N.J., the
    regular visit of the tame wild goose with a broken leg to the
    pond near Bilgewater Junction, the base attempt of the Drug
    Trust to boost the price of quinine foiled in the House by
    Congressman Jinks, the first tall poplar struck by lightning and
    the usual stunned picknickers who had taken refuge, the first
    crack of the ice jamb in the Allegheny River, the finding of a
    violet in its mossy bed by the correspondent at Round
    Corners--these are the advanced signs of the burgeoning season
    that are wired into the wise city, while the farmer sees nothing
    but winter upon his dreary fields.

But these be mere externals. The true harbinger is the heart.
    When Strephon seeks his Chloe and Mike his Maggie, then only is
    Spring arrived and the newspaper report of the five foot rattler
    killed in Squire Pettregrew's pasture confirmed.

A hackneyed writer would probably have said that the newspaper told the
city man about spring before the farmer could see any evidence of it,
but that the real harbinger of spring was love and that "In the Spring a
young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love."

_2. Imaging in Speech-Delivery_

When once the passion of speech is on you and you are "warmed
up"--perhaps by striking _till_ the iron is hot so that you may not fail
to strike _when_ it is hot--your mood will be one of vision.

Then (a) _Re-image past emotion_--of which more elsewhere. The actor
re-calls the old feelings every time he renders his telling lines.

(b) _Reconstruct in image the scenes you are to describe._