It will be noticed, too, that the literary style in platform narration
is likely to be either less polished and more vigorously dramatic than
in that intended for publication, or else more fervid and elevated in
tone. In this latter respect, however, the best platform speaking of
today differs from the models of the preceding generation, wherein a
highly dignified, and sometimes pompous, style was thought the only
fitting dress for a public deliverance. Great, noble and stirring as
these older masters were in their lofty and impassioned eloquence, we
are sometimes oppressed when we read their sounding periods for any
great length of time--even allowing for all that we lose by missing the
speaker's presence, voice, and fire. So let us model our platform
narration, as our other forms of speech, upon the effective addresses of
the moderns, without lessening our admiration for the older school.

_The Anecdote_

An anecdote is a short narrative of a single event, told as being
striking enough to bring out a point. The keener the point, the more
condensed the form, and the more suddenly the application strikes the
hearer, the better the story.

To regard an anecdote as an illustration--an interpretive picture--will
help to hold us to its true purpose, for a purposeless story is of all
offenses on the platform the most asinine. A perfectly capital joke will
fall flat when it is dragged in by the nape without evident bearing on
the subject under discussion. On the other hand, an apposite anecdote
has saved many a speech from failure.

"There is no finer opportunity for the display of tact than in the
introduction of witty or humorous stories into a discourse. Wit is keen
and like a rapier, piercing deeply, sometimes even to the heart. Humor
is good-natured, and does not wound. Wit is founded upon the sudden
discovery of an unsuspected relation existing between two ideas. Humor
deals with things out of relation--with the incongruous. It was wit in
Douglass Jerrold to retort upon the scowl of a stranger whose shoulder
he had familiarly slapped, mistaking him for a friend: 'I beg your
pardon, I thought I knew you--but I'm glad I don't.' It was humor in the
Southern orator, John Wise, to liken the pleasure of spending an
evening with a Puritan girl to that of sitting on a block of ice in
winter, cracking hailstones between his teeth."[24]

The foregoing quotation has been introduced chiefly to illustrate the
first and simplest form of anecdote--the single sentence embodying a
pungent saying.

Another simple form is that which conveys its meaning without need of
"application," as the old preachers used to say. George Ade has quoted
this one as the best joke he ever heard:

Two solemn-looking gentlemen were riding together in a railway
    carriage. One gentleman said to the other: "Is your wife
    entertaining this summer?" Whereupon the other gentleman
    replied: "Not very."

Other anecdotes need harnessing to the particular truth the speaker
wishes to carry along in his talk. Sometimes the application is made
before the story is told and the audience is prepared to make the
comparison, point by point, as the illustration is told. Henry W. Grady
used this method in one of the anecdotes he told while delivering his
great extemporaneous address, "The New South."

Age does not endow all things with strength and virtue, nor are
    all new things to be despised. The shoemaker who put over his
    door, "John Smith's shop, founded 1760," was more than matched
    by his young rival across the street who hung out this sign:
    "Bill Jones. Established 1886. No old stock kept in this shop."

In two anecdotes, told also in "The New South," Mr. Grady illustrated
another way of enforcing the application: in both instances he split
the idea he wished to drive home, bringing in part before and part after
the recital of the story. The fact that the speaker misquoted the words
of Genesis in which the Ark is described did not seem to detract from
the burlesque humor of the story.

I bespeak the utmost stretch of your courtesy tonight. I am not
    troubled about those from whom I come. You remember the man
    whose wife sent him to a neighbor with a pitcher of milk, who,
    tripping on the top step, fell, with such casual interruptions
    as the landings afforded, into the basement, and, while picking
    himself up, had the pleasure of hearing his wife call out:

"John, did you break the pitcher?

"No, I didn't," said John, "but I be dinged if I don't."

So, while those who call to me from behind may inspire me with
    energy, if not with courage, I ask an indulgent hearing from
    you. I beg that you will bring your full faith in American
    fairness and frankness to judgment upon what I shall say. There
    was an old preacher once who told some boys of the Bible lesson
    he was going to read in the morning. The boys, finding the
    place, glued together the connecting pages. The next morning he
    read on the bottom of one page: "When Noah was one hundred and
    twenty years old he took unto himself a wife, who was"--then
    turning the page--"one hundred and forty cubits long, forty
    cubits wide, built of gopher wood, and covered with pitch inside
    and out." He was naturally puzzled at this. He read it again,
    verified it, and then said, "My friends, this is the first time
    I ever met this in the Bible, but I accept it as an evidence of
    the assertion that we are fearfully and wonderfully made." If I
    could get you to hold such faith to-night, I could proceed
    cheerfully to the task I otherwise approach with a sense of
    consecration.

Now and then a speaker will plunge without introduction into an
anecdote, leaving the application to follow. The following illustrates
this method: