A large, slew-footed darky was leaning against the corner of the
    railroad station in a Texas town when the noon whistle in the
    canning factory blew and the hands hurried out, bearing their
    grub buckets. The darky listened, with his head on one side
    until the rocketing echo had quite died away. Then he heaved a
    deep sigh and remarked to himself:

"Dar she go. Dinner time for some folks--but jes' 12 o'clock fur
    me!"

That is the situation in thousands of American factories, large
    and small, today. And why? etc., etc.

Doubtless the most frequent platform use of the anecdote is in the
pulpit. The sermon "illustration," however, is not always strictly
narrative in form, but tends to extended comparison, as the following
from Dr. Alexander Maclaren:

Men will stand as Indian fakirs do, with their arms above their
    heads until they stiffen there. They will perch themselves upon
    pillars like Simeon Stylites, for years, till the birds build
    their nests in their hair. They will measure all the distance
    from Cape Comorin to Juggernaut's temple with their bodies along
    the dusty road. They will wear hair shirts and scourge
    themselves. They will fast and deny themselves. They will build
    cathedrals and endow churches. They will do as many of you do,
    labor by fits and starts all thru your lives at the endless task
    of making yourselves ready for heaven, and winning it by
    obedience and by righteousness. They will do all these things
    and do them gladly, rather than listen to the humbling message
    that says, "You do not need to do anything--wash." Is it your
    washing, or the water, that will clean you? Wash and be clean!
    Naaman's cleaning was only a test of his obedience, and a token
    that it was God who cleansed him. There was no power in Jordan's
    waters to take away the taint of leprosy. Our cleansing is in
    that blood of Jesus Christ that has the power to take away all
    sin, and to make the foulest amongst us pure and clean.

One final word must be said about the introduction to the anecdote. A
clumsy, inappropriate introduction is fatal, whereas a single apt or
witty sentence will kindle interest and prepare a favorable hearing. The
following extreme illustration, by the English humorist, Captain Harry
Graham, well satirizes the stumbling manner:

The best story that I ever heard was one that I was told once in
    the fall of 1905 (or it may have been 1906), when I was visiting
    Boston--at least, I think it was Boston; it may have been
    Washington (my memory is so bad).

I happened to run across a most amusing man whose name I
    forget--Williams or Wilson or Wilkins; some name like that--and
    he told me this story while we were waiting for a trolley car.

I can still remember how heartily I laughed at the time; and
    again, that evening, after I had gone to bed, how I laughed
    myself to sleep recalling the humor of this incredibly humorous
    story. It was really quite extraordinarily funny. In fact, I can
    truthfully affirm that it is quite the most amusing story I have
    ever had the privilege of hearing. Unfortunately, I've forgotten
    it.

_Biographical Facts_

Public speaking has much to do with personalities; naturally, therefore,
the narration of a series of biographical details, including anecdotes
among the recital of interesting facts, plays a large part in the
eulogy, the memorial address, the political speech, the sermon, the
lecture, and other platform deliverances. Whole addresses may be made up
of such biographical details, such as a sermon on "Moses," or a lecture
on "Lee."

The following example is in itself an expanded anecdote, forming a link
in a chain:

_MARIUS IN PRISON_

The peculiar sublimity of the Roman mind does not express
    itself, nor is it at all to be sought, in their poetry. Poetry,
    according to the Roman ideal of it, was not an adequate organ
    for the grander movements of the national mind. Roman sublimity
    must be looked for in Roman acts, and in Roman sayings. Where,
    again, will you find a more adequate expression of the Roman
    majesty, than in the saying of Trajan--_Imperatorem oportere
    stantem mori_--that Caesar ought to die standing; a speech of
    imperatorial grandeur! Implying that he, who was "the foremost
    man of all this world,"--and, in regard to all other nations,
    the representative of his own,--should express its
    characteristic virtue in his farewell act--should die _in
    procinctu_--and should meet the last enemy as the first, with a
    Roman countenance and in a soldier's attitude. If this had an
    imperatorial--what follows had a consular majesty, and is almost
    the grandest story upon record.