I remember an incident that will illustrate this, the only one that I
can give to-night. I am ashamed of it, but I don't dare leave it out. I
close my eyes now; I look back through the years to 1863; I can see my
native town in the Berkshire Hills, I can see that cattle-show ground
filled with people; I can see the church there and the town hall
crowded, and hear bands playing, and see flags flying and handkerchiefs
streaming--well do I recall at this moment that day. The people had
turned out to receive a company of soldiers, and that company came
marching up on the Common. They had served out one term in the Civil War
and had reenlisted, and they were being received by their native
townsmen. I was but a boy, but I was captain of that company, puffed out
with pride on that day--why, a cambric needle would have burst me all to
pieces. As I marched on the Common at the head of my company, there was
not a man more proud than I. We marched into the town hall and then they
seated my soldiers down in the center of the house and I took my place
down on the front seat, and then the town officers filed through the
great throng of people, who stood close and packed in that little hall.
They came up on the platform, formed a half circle around it, and the
mayor of the town, the "chairman of the Selectmen" in New England, took
his seat in the middle of that half circle. He was an old man, his hair
was gray; he never held an office before in his life. He thought that an
office was all he needed to be a truly great man, and when he came up he
adjusted his powerful spectacles and glanced calmly around the audience
with amazing dignity. Suddenly his eyes fell upon me, and then the good
old man came right forward and invited me to come up on the stand with
the town officers. Invited me up on the stand! No town officer ever took
notice of me before I went to war. Now, I should not say that. One town
officer was there who advised the teacher to "whale" me, but I mean no
"honorable mention." So I was invited up on the stand with the town
officers. I took my seat and let my sword fall on the floor, and folded
my arms across my breast and waited to be received. Napoleon the Fifth!
Pride goeth before destruction and a fall. When I had gotten my seat and
all became silent through the hall, the chairman of the Selectmen arose
and came forward with great dignity to the table, and we all supposed he
would introduce the Congregational minister, who was the only orator in
the town, and who would give the oration to the returning soldiers. But,
friends, you should have seen the surprise that ran over that audience
when they discovered that this old farmer was going to deliver that
oration himself. He had never made a speech in his life before, but he
fell into the same error that others have fallen into, he seemed to
think that the office would make him an orator. So he had written out a
speech and walked up and down the pasture until he had learned it by
heart and frightened the cattle, and he brought that manuscript with
him, and taking it from his pocket, he spread it carefully upon the
table. Then he adjusted his spectacles to be sure that he might see it,
and walked far back on the platform and then stepped forward like this.
He must have studied the subject much, for he assumed an elocutionary
attitude; he rested heavily upon his left heel, slightly advanced the
right foot, threw back his shoulders, opened the organs of speech, and
advanced his right hand at an angle of forty-five. As he stood in that
elocutionary attitude this is just the way that speech went, this is it
precisely. Some of my friends have asked me if I do not exaggerate it,
but I could not exaggerate it. Impossible! This is the way it went;
although I am not here for the story but the lesson that is back of it:

"Fellow citizens." As soon as he heard his voice, his hand began to
shake like that, his knees began to tremble, and then he shook all over.
He coughed and choked and finally came around to look at his manuscript.
Then he began again: "Fellow citizens: We--are--we are--we are--we
are--We are very happy--we are very happy--we are very happy--to welcome
back to their native town these soldiers who have fought and bled--and
come back again to their native town. We are especially--we are
especially--we are especially--we are especially pleased to see with us
to-day this young hero (that meant me)--this young hero who in
imagination (friends, remember, he said "imagination," for if he had not
said that, I would not be egotistical enough to refer to it)--this young
hero who, in imagination, we have seen leading his troops--leading--we
have seen leading--we have seen leading his troops on to the deadly
breach. We have seen his shining--his shining--we have seen his
shining--we have seen his shining--his shining sword--flashing in the
sunlight as he shouted to his troops, 'Come on!'"