In our city especially there are great opportunities for manufacturing,
and the time has come when the line is drawn very sharply between the
stockholders of the factory and their employes. Now, friends, there has
also come a discouraging gloom upon this country and the laboring men
are beginning to feel that they are being held down by a crust over
their heads through which they find it impossible to break, and the
aristocratic money-owner himself is so far above that he will never
descend to their assistance. That is the thought that is in the minds of
our people. But, friends, never in the history of our country was there
an opportunity so great for the poor man to get rich as there is now in
the city of Philadelphia. The very fact that they get discouraged is
what prevents them from getting rich. That is all there is to it. The
road is open, and let us keep it open between the poor and the rich. I
know that the labor unions have two great problems to contend with, and
there is only one way to solve them. The labor unions are doing as much
to prevent its solving as are the capitalists to-day, and there are
positively two sides to it. The labor union has two difficulties; the
first one is that it began to make a labor scale for all classes on a
par, and they scale down a man that can earn five dollars a day to two
and a half a day, in order to level up to him an imbecile that cannot
earn fifty cents a day. That is one of the most dangerous and
discouraging things for the working man. He cannot get the results of
his work if he do better work or higher work or work longer; that is a
dangerous thing, and in order to get every laboring man free and every
American equal to every other American, let the laboring man ask what he
is worth and get it--not let any capitalist say to him: "You shall work
for me for half of what you are worth;" nor let any labor organization
say: "You shall work for the capitalist for half your worth." Be a man,
be independent, and then shall the laboring man find the road ever open
from poverty to wealth. The other difficulty that the labor union has to
consider, and this problem they have to solve themselves, is the kind of
orators who come and talk to them about the oppressive rich. I can in my
dreams recite the oration I have heard again and again under such
circumstances. My life has been with the laboring man. I am a laboring
man myself. I have often, in their assemblies, heard the speech of the
man who has been invited to address the labor union. The man gets up
before the assembled company of honest laboring men and he begins by
saying: "Oh, ye honest, industrious laboring men, who have furnished all
the capital of the world, who have built all the palaces and constructed
all the railroads and covered the ocean with her steamships. Oh, you
laboring men! You are nothing but slaves; you are ground down in the
dust by the capitalist who is gloating over you as he enjoys his
beautiful estates and as he has his banks filled with gold, and every
dollar he owns is coined out of the hearts' blood of the honest laboring
man." Now, that is a lie, and you know it is a lie; and yet that is the
kind of speech that they are all the time hearing, representing the
capitalists as wicked and the laboring men so enslaved. Why, how wrong
it is! Let the man who loves his flag and believes in American
principles endeavor with all his soul to bring the capitalist and the
laboring man together until they stand side by side, and arm in arm, and
work for the common good of humanity.

He is an enemy to his country who sets capital against labor or labor
against capital.

Suppose I were to go down through this audience and ask you to introduce
me to the great inventors who live here in Philadelphia. "The inventors
of Philadelphia," you would say, "Why we don't have any in Philadelphia.
It is too slow to invent anything." But you do have just as great
inventors, and they are here in this audience, as ever invented a
machine. But the probability is that the greatest inventor to benefit
the world with his discovery is some person, perhaps some lady, who
thinks she could not invent anything. Did you ever study the history of
invention and see how strange it was that the man who made the greatest
discovery did it without any previous idea that he was an inventor? Who
are the great inventors? They are persons with plain, straightforward
common sense, who saw a need in the world and immediately applied
themselves to supply that need. If you want to invent anything, don't
try to find it in the wheels in your head nor the wheels in your
machine, but first find out what the people need, and then apply
yourself to that need, and this leads to invention on the part of the
people you would not dream of before. The great inventors are simply
great men; the greater the man the more simple the man; and the more
simple a machine, the more valuable it is. Did you ever know a really
great man? His ways are so simple, so common, so plain, that you think
any one could do what he is doing. So it is with the great men the world
over. If you know a really great man, a neighbor of yours, you can go
right up to him and say, "How are you, Jim, good morning, Sam." Of
course you can, for they are always so simple.