What has been the practical statesmanship which comes from your
    ideals and your sentimentalities? You have wasted nearly six
    hundred millions of treasure. You have sacrificed nearly ten
    thousand American lives--the flower of our youth. You have
    devastated provinces. You have slain uncounted thousands of the
    people you desire to benefit. You have established
    reconcentration camps. Your generals are coming home from their
    harvest bringing sheaves with them, in the shape of other
    thousands of sick and wounded and insane to drag out miserable
    lives, wrecked in body and mind. You make the American flag in
    the eyes of a numerous people the emblem of sacrilege in
    Christian churches, and of the burning of human dwellings, and
    of the horror of the water torture. Your practical statesmanship
    which disdains to take George Washington and Abraham Lincoln or
    the soldiers of the Revolution or of the Civil War as models,
    has looked in some cases to Spain for your example. I
    believe--nay, I know--that in general our officers and soldiers
    are humane. But in some cases they have carried on your warfare
    with a mixture of American ingenuity and Castilian cruelty.

Your practical statesmanship has succeeded in converting a
    people who three years ago were ready to kiss the hem of the
    garment of the American and to welcome him as a liberator, who
    thronged after your men, when they landed on those islands, with
    benediction and gratitude, into sullen and irreconcilable
    enemies, possessed of a hatred which centuries cannot eradicate.

Mr. President, this is the eternal law of human nature. You may
    struggle against it, you may try to escape it, you may persuade
    yourself that your intentions are benevolent, that your yoke
    will be easy and your burden will be light, but it will assert
    itself again. Government without the consent of the
    governed--authority which heaven never gave--can only be
    supported by means which heaven never can sanction.

The American people have got this one question to answer. They
    may answer it now; they can take ten years, or twenty years, or
    a generation, or a century to think of it. But will not down.
    They must answer it in the end: Can you lawfully buy with money,
    or get by brute force of arms, the right to hold in subjugation
    an unwilling people, and to impose on them such constitution as
    you, and not they, think best for them?

Senator Hoar then went on to make another sort of appeal--the appeal to
fact and experience:

We have answered this question a good many times in the past.
    The fathers answered it in 1776, and founded the Republic upon
    their answer, which has been the corner-stone. John Quincy Adams
    and James Monroe answered it again in the Monroe Doctrine, which
    John Quincy Adams declared was only the doctrine of the consent
    of the governed. The Republican party answered it when it took
    possession of the force of government at the beginning of the
    most brilliant period in all legislative history. Abraham
    Lincoln answered it when, on that fatal journey to Washington in
    1861, he announced that as the doctrine of his political creed,
    and declared, with prophetic vision, that he was ready to be
    assassinated for it if need be. You answered it again yourselves
    when you said that Cuba, who had no more title than the people
    of the Philippine Islands had to their independence, of right
    ought to be free and independent.

--GEORGE F. HOAR.

Appeal to the things that man holds dear is another potent form of
persuasion.

Joseph Story, in his great Salem speech (1828) used this method most
dramatically:

I call upon you, fathers, by the shades of your ancestors--by
    the dear ashes which repose in this precious soil--by all you
    are, and all you hope to be--resist every object of disunion,
    resist every encroachment upon your liberties, resist every
    attempt to fetter your consciences, or smother your public
    schools, or extinguish your system of public instruction.

I call upon you, mothers, by that which never fails in woman,
    the love of your offspring; teach them, as they climb your
    knees, or lean on your bosoms, the blessings of liberty. Swear
    them at the altar, as with their baptismal vows, to be true to
    their country, and never to forget or forsake her.

I call upon you, young men, to remember whose sons you are;
    whose inheritance you possess. Life can never be too short,
    which brings nothing but disgrace and oppression. Death never
    comes too soon, if necessary in defence of the liberties of your
    country.

I call upon you, old men, for your counsels, and your prayers,
    and your benedictions. May not your gray hairs go down in sorrow
    to the grave, with the recollection that you have lived in vain.
    May not your last sun sink in the west upon a nation of slaves.

No; I read in the destiny of my country far better hopes, far
    brighter visions. We, who are now assembled here, must soon be
    gathered to the congregation of other days. The time of our
    departure is at hand, to make way for our children upon the
    theatre of life. May God speed them and theirs. May he who, at
    the distance of another century, shall stand here to celebrate
    this day, still look round upon a free, happy, and virtuous
    people. May he have reason to exult as we do. May he, with all
    the enthusiasm of truth as well as of poetry, exclaim, that here
    is still his country.

--JOSEPH STORY.