At the bottom of all true heroism is unselfishness. Its crowning
    expression is sacrifice. The world is suspicious of vaunted
    heroes. But when the true hero has come, and we know that here
    he is in verity, ah! how the hearts of men leap forth to greet
    him! how worshipfully we welcome God's noblest work--the strong,
    honest, fearless, upright man. In Robert Lee was such a hero
    vouchsafed to us and to mankind, and whether we behold him
    declining command of the federal army to fight the battles and
    share the miseries of his own people; proclaiming on the heights
    in front of Gettysburg that the fault of the disaster was his
    own; leading charges in the crisis of combat; walking under the
    yoke of conquest without a murmur of complaint; or refusing
    fortune to come here and train the youth of his country in the
    paths of duty,--he is ever the same meek, grand, self-sacrificing
    spirit. Here he exhibited qualities not less worthy and heroic
    than those displayed on the broad and open theater of
    conflict, when the eyes of nations watched his every action.
    Here in the calm repose of civil and domestic duties, and in
    the trying routine of incessant tasks, he lived a life as high
    as when, day by day, he marshalled and led his thin and
    wasting lines, and slept by night upon the field that was to
    be drenched again in blood upon the morrow. And now he has
    vanished from us forever. And is this all that is left of
    him--this handful of dust beneath the marble stone? No! the
    ages answer as they rise from the gulfs of time, where lie the
    wrecks of kingdoms and estates, holding up in their hands as
    their only trophies, the names of those who have wrought for
    man in the love and fear of God, and in love--unfearing for
    their fellow-men. No! the present answers, bending by his
    tomb. No! the future answers as the breath of the morning fans
    its radiant brow, and its soul drinks in sweet inspirations
    from the lovely life of Lee. No! methinks the very heavens
    echo, as melt into their depths the words of reverent love
    that voice the hearts of men to the tingling stars.

Come we then to-day in loyal love to sanctify our memories, to
    purify our hopes, to make strong all good intent by communion
    with the spirit of him who, being dead yet speaketh. Come,
    child, in thy spotless innocence; come, woman, in thy purity;
    come, youth, in thy prime; come, manhood, in thy strength; come,
    age, in thy ripe wisdom; come, citizen; come, soldier; let us
    strew the roses and lilies of June around his tomb, for he, like
    them, exhaled in his life Nature's beneficence, and the grave
    has consecrated that life and given it to us all; let us crown
    his tomb with the oak, the emblem of his strength, and with the
    laurel the emblem of his glory, and let these guns, whose voices
    he knew of old, awake the echoes of the mountains, that nature
    herself may join in his solemn requiem. Come, for here he rests,
    and

On this green bank, by this fair stream,
    We set to-day a votive stone,
    That memory may his deeds redeem?
    When, like our sires, our sons are gone.

--JOHN WARWICK DANIEL, on the unveiling of Lee's statue at
    Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, 1883.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Why should humor find a place in after-dinner speaking?

2. Briefly give your impressions of any notable after-dinner address
that you have heard.

3. Briefly outline an imaginary occasion of any sort and give three
subjects appropriate for addresses.

4. Deliver one such address, not to exceed ten minutes in length.

5. What proportion of emotional ideas do you find in the extracts given
in this chapter?

6. Humor was used in some of the foregoing addresses--in which others
would it have been inappropriate?

7. Prepare and deliver an after-dinner speech suited to one of the
following occasions, and be sure to use humor:

A lodge banquet.
  A political party dinner.
  A church men's club dinner.
  A civic association banquet.
  A banquet in honor of a celebrity.
  A woman's club annual dinner.
  A business men's association dinner.
  A manufacturers' club dinner.
  An alumni banquet.
  An old home week barbecue.

[Footnote 35: See also page 205.]

CHAPTER XXXI

MAKING CONVERSATION EFFECTIVE

In conversation avoid the extremes of forwardness and reserve.

Conversation is the laboratory and workshop of the student.

--EMERSON, _Essays: Circles_.

The father of W.E. Gladstone considered conversation to be both an art
and an accomplishment. Around the dinner table in his home some topic of
local or national interest, or some debated question, was constantly
being discussed. In this way a friendly rivalry for supremacy in
conversation arose among the family, and an incident observed in the
street, an idea gleaned from a book, a deduction from personal
experience, was carefully stored as material for the family exchange.
Thus his early years of practise in elegant conversation prepared the
younger Gladstone for his career as a leader and speaker.

There is a sense in which the ability to converse effectively is
efficient public speaking, for our conversation is often heard by many,
and occasionally decisions of great moment hinge upon the tone and
quality of what we say in private.

Indeed, conversation in the aggregate probably wields more power than
press and platform combined. Socrates taught his great truths, not from
public rostrums, but in personal converse. Men made pilgrimages to
Goethe's library and Coleridge's home to be charmed and instructed by
their speech, and the culture of many nations was immeasurably
influenced by the thoughts that streamed out from those rich
well-springs.