Two days afterward, I went to visit a friend in the country, a
    modest man, with a quiet country home. It was just a simple,
    unpretentious house, set about with big trees, encircled in
    meadow and field rich with the promise of harvest. The fragrance
    of the pink and hollyhock in the front yard was mingled with the
    aroma of the orchard and of the gardens, and resonant with the
    cluck of poultry and the hum of bees.

Inside was quiet, cleanliness, thrift, and comfort. There was
    the old clock that had welcomed, in steady measure, every
    newcomer to the family, that had ticked the solemn requiem of
    the dead, and had kept company with the watcher at the bedside.
    There were the big, restful beds and the old, open fireplace,
    and the old family Bible, thumbed with the fingers of hands long
    since still, and wet with the tears of eyes long since closed,
    holding the simple annals of the family and the heart and the
    conscience of the home.

Outside, there stood my friend, the master, a simple, upright
    man, with no mortgage on his roof, no lien on his growing crops,
    master of his land and master of himself. There was his old
    father, an aged, trembling man, but happy in the heart and home
    of his son. And as they started to their home, the hands of the
    old man went down on the young man's shoulder, laying there the
    unspeakable blessing of the honored and grateful father and
    ennobling it with the knighthood of the fifth commandment.

And as they reached the door the old mother came with the sunset
    falling fair on her face, and lighting up her deep, patient
    eyes, while her lips, trembling with the rich music of her
    heart, bade her husband and son welcome to their home. Beyond
    was the housewife, busy with her household cares, clean of heart
    and conscience, the buckler and helpmeet of her husband. Down
    the lane came the children, trooping home after the cows,
    seeking as truant birds do the quiet of their home nest.

And I saw the night come down on that house, falling gently as
    the wings of the unseen dove. And the old man--while a startled
    bird called from the forest, and the trees were shrill with the
    cricket's cry, and the stars were swarming in the sky--got the
    family around him, and, taking the old Bible from the table,
    called them to their knees, the little baby hiding in the folds
    of its mother's dress, while he closed the record of that
    simple day by calling down God's benediction on that family and
    that home. And while I gazed, the vision of that marble Capitol
    faded. Forgotten were its treasures and its majesty and I said,
    "Oh, surely here in the homes of the people are lodged at last
    the strength and the responsibility of this government, the hope
    and the promise of this republic."

--HENRY W. GRADY.

_SUGGESTIVE SCENES_

One thing in life calls for another; there is a fitness in
    events and places. The sight of a pleasant arbor puts it in our
    mind to sit there. One place suggests work, another idleness, a
    third early rising and long rambles in the dew. The effect of
    night, of any flowing water, of lighted cities, of the peep of
    day, of ships, of the open ocean, calls up in the mind an army
    of anonymous desires and pleasures. Something, we feel, should
    happen; we know not what, yet we proceed in quest of it. And
    many of the happiest hours in life fleet by us in this vain
    attendance on the genius of the place and moment. It is thus
    that tracts of young fir, and low rocks that reach into deep
    soundings, particularly delight and torture me. Something must
    have happened in such places, and perhaps ages back, to members
    of my race; and when I was a child I tried to invent appropriate
    games for them, as I still try, just as vainly, to fit them with
    the proper story. Some places speak distinctly. Certain dank
    gardens cry aloud for a murder; certain old houses demand to be
    haunted; certain coasts are set aside for shipwreck. Other spots
    again seem to abide their destiny, suggestive and impenetrable,
    "miching mallecho." The inn at Burford Bridge, with its arbours
    and green garden and silent, eddying river--though it is known
    already as the place where Keats wrote some of his _Endymion_
    and Nelson parted from his Emma--still seems to wait the coming
    of the appropriate legend. Within these ivied walls, behind
    these old green shutters, some further business smoulders,
    waiting for its hour. The old Hawes Inn at the Queen's ferry
    makes a similar call upon my fancy. There it stands, apart from
    the town, beside the pier, in a climate of its own, half inland,
    half marine--in front, the ferry bubbling with the tide and the
    guard-ship swinging to her anchor; behind, the old garden with
    the trees. Americans seek it already for the sake of Lovel and
    Oldbuck, who dined there at the beginning of the _Antiquary_.
    But you need not tell me--that is not all; there is some story,
    unrecorded or not yet complete, which must express the meaning
    of that inn more fully.... I have lived both at the Hawes and
    Burford in a perpetual flutter, on the heel, as it seemed, of
    some adventure that should justify the place; but though the
    feeling had me to bed at night and called me again at morning in
    one unbroken round of pleasure and suspense, nothing befell me
    in either worth remark. The man or the hour had not yet come;
    but some day, I think, a boat shall put off from the Queen's
    ferry, fraught with a dear cargo, and some frosty night a
    horseman, on a tragic errand, rattle with his whip upon the
    green shutters at the inn at Burford.

--R.L. STEVENSON, _A Gossip on Romance_.

_FROM "MIDNIGHT IN LONDON"_