It is impossible for anyone--even yourself--to criticise your gestures
until after they are made. You can't prune a peach tree until it comes
up; therefore speak much, and observe your own speech. While you are
examining yourself, do not forget to study statuary and paintings to see
how the great portrayers of nature have made their subjects express
ideas through action. Notice the gestures of the best speakers and
actors. Observe the physical expression of life everywhere. The leaves
on the tree respond to the slightest breeze. The muscles of your face,
the light of your eyes, should respond to the slightest change of
feeling. Emerson says: "Every man that I meet is my superior in some
way. In that I learn of him." Illiterate Italians make gestures so
wonderful and beautiful that Booth or Barrett might have sat at their
feet and been instructed. Open your eyes. Emerson says again: "We are
immersed in beauty, but our eyes have no clear vision." Toss this book
to one side; go out and watch one child plead with another for a bite of
apple; see a street brawl; observe life in action. Do you want to know
how to express victory? Watch the victors' hands go high on election
night. Do you want to plead a cause? Make a composite photograph of all
the pleaders in daily life you constantly see. Beg, borrow, and steal
the best you can get, _BUT DON'T GIVE IT OUT AS THEFT_. Assimilate it
until it becomes a part of you--then _let_ the expression come out.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. From what source do you intend to study gesture?

2. What is the first requisite of good gestures? Why?

3. Why is it impossible to lay down steel-clad rules for gesturing?

4. Describe (_a_) a graceful gesture that you have observed; (_b_) a
forceful one; (_c_) an extravagant one; (_d_) an inappropriate one.

5. What gestures do you use for emphasis? Why?

6. How can grace of movement be acquired?

7. When in doubt about a gesture what would you do?

8. What, according to your observations before a mirror, are your faults
in gesturing?

9. How do you intend to correct them?

10. What are some of the gestures, if any, that you might use in
delivering Thurston's speech, page 50; Grady's speech, page 36? Be
specific.

11. Describe some particularly appropriate gesture that you have
observed. Why was it appropriate?

12. Cite at least three movements in nature that might well be imitated
in gesture.

13. What would you gather from the expressions: _descriptive_ gesture,
_suggestive_ gesture, and _typical_ gesture?

14. Select any elemental emotion, such as fear, and try, by picturing in
your mind at least five different situations that might call forth this
emotion, to express its several phases by gesture--including posture,
movement, and facial expression.

15. Do the same thing for such other emotions as you may select.

16. Select three passages from any source, only being sure that they are
suitable for public delivery, memorize each, and then devise gestures
suitable for each. Say why.

17. Criticise the gestures in any speech you have heard recently.

18. Practise flexible movement of the hand. What exercises did you find
useful?

19. Carefully observe some animal; then devise several typical gestures.

20. Write a brief dialogue between any two animals; read it aloud and
invent expressive gestures.

21. Deliver, with appropriate gestures, the quotation that heads this
chapter.

22. Read aloud the following incident, using dramatic gestures:

When Voltaire was preparing a young actress to appear in one of
    his tragedies, he tied her hands to her sides with pack thread
    in order to check her tendency toward exuberant gesticulation.
    Under this condition of compulsory immobility she commenced to
    rehearse, and for some time she bore herself calmly enough; but
    at last, completely carried away by her feelings, she burst her
    bonds and flung up her arms. Alarmed at her supposed neglect of
    his instructions, she began to apologize to the poet; he
    smilingly reassured her, however; the gesture was _then_
    admirable, because it was irrepressible.

--REDWAY, _The Actor's Art_.

23. Render the following with suitable gestures:

One day, while preaching, Whitefield "suddenly assumed a
    nautical air and manner that were irresistible with him," and
    broke forth in these words: "Well, my boys, we have a clear sky,
    and are making fine headway over a smooth sea before a light
    breeze, and we shall soon lose sight of land. But what means
    this sudden lowering of the heavens, and that dark cloud arising
    from beneath the western horizon? Hark! Don't you hear distant
    thunder? Don't you see those flashes of lightning? There is a
    storm gathering! Every man to his duty! The air is dark!--the
    tempest rages!--our masts are gone!--the ship is on her beam
    ends! What next?" At this a number of sailors in the
    congregation, utterly swept away by the dramatic description,
    leaped to their feet and cried: "The longboat!--take to the
    longboat!"

--NATHAN SHEPPARD, _Before an Audience_.

CHAPTER XVI

METHODS OF DELIVERY