But when you come to the Legislature I am bound to confess that
    the thing does not look very much more cheering on the outside.
    Do they really select the best men? Yes; in times of danger they
    do very generally, but in ordinary time, "kissing goes by
    favor." You know what the duty of a regular Republican-Democratic
    legislator is. It is to get back again next winter. His second
    duty is what? His second duty is to put himself under that
    extraordinary providence that takes care of legislators'
    salaries. The old miracle of the prophet and the meal and the
    oil is outdone immeasurably in our days, for they go there poor
    one year, and go home rich; in four years they become
    moneylenders, all by a trust in that gracious providence that
    takes care of legislators' salaries. Their next duty after
    that is to serve the party that sent them up, and then, if there
    is anything left of them, it belongs to the commonwealth.
    Someone has said very wisely, that if a man traveling wishes to
    relish his dinner he had better not go into the kitchen to see
    where it is cooked; if a man wishes to respect and obey the law,
    he had better not go to the Legislature to see where that is
    cooked.

--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

From a lecture delivered in Exeter Hall, London, 1886, when making
    his last tour of Great Britain.

_In Case of Trouble_

But what are you to do if, notwithstanding all your efforts, you should
forget your points, and your mind, for the minute, becomes blank? This
is a deplorable condition that sometimes arises and must be dealt with.
Obviously, you can sit down and admit defeat. Such a consummation is
devoutly to be shunned.

Walking slowly across the platform may give you time to grip yourself,
compose your thoughts, and stave off disaster. Perhaps the surest and
most practical method is to begin a new sentence with your last
important word. This is not advocated as a method of composing a
speech--it is merely an extreme measure which may save you in tight
circumstances. It is like the fire department--the less you must use it
the better. If this method is followed very long you are likely to find
yourself talking about plum pudding or Chinese Gordon in the most
unexpected manner, so of course you will get back to your lines the
earliest moment that your feet have hit the platform.

Let us see how this plan works--obviously, your extemporized words will
lack somewhat of polish, but in such a pass crudity is better than
failure.

Now you have come to a dead wall after saying: "Joan of Arc fought for
liberty." By this method you might get something like this:

"Liberty is a sacred privilege for which mankind always had to fight.
These struggles [Platitude--but push on] fill the pages of history.
History records the gradual triumph of the serf over the lord, the slave
over the master. The master has continually tried to usurp unlimited
powers. Power during the medieval ages accrued to the owner of the land
with a spear and a strong castle; but the strong castle and spear were
of little avail after the discovery of gunpowder. Gunpowder was the
greatest boon that liberty had ever known."

Thus far you have linked one idea with another rather obviously, but you
are getting your second wind now and may venture to relax your grip on
the too-evident chain; and so you say:

"With gunpowder the humblest serf in all the land could put an end to
the life of the tyrannical baron behind the castle walls. The struggle
for liberty, with gunpowder as its aid, wrecked empires, and built up a
new era for all mankind."

In a moment more you have gotten back to your outline and the day is
saved.

Practising exercises like the above will not only fortify you against
the death of your speech when your memory misses fire, but it will also
provide an excellent training for fluency in speaking. _Stock up with
ideas._

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Pick out and state briefly the nine helps to memorizing suggested in
this chapter.

2. Report on whatever success you may have had with any of the plans for
memory culture suggested in this chapter. Have any been less successful
than others?

3. Freely criticise any of the suggested methods.

4. Give an original example of memory by association of ideas.

5. List in order the chief ideas of any speech in this volume.

6. Repeat them from memory.

7. Expand them into a speech, using your own words.

8. Illustrate practically what would you do, if in the midst of a speech
on Progress, your memory failed you and you stopped suddenly on the
following sentence: "The last century saw marvelous progress in varied
lines of activity."

9. How many quotations that fit well in the speaker's tool chest can you
recall from memory?

10. Memorize the poem on page 42. How much time does it require?

CHAPTER XXIX

RIGHT THINKING AND PERSONALITY

Whatever crushes individuality is despotism, by whatever name it
    may be called.

--JOHN STUART MILL, _On Liberty_.

Right thinking fits for complete living by developing the power
    to appreciate the beautiful in nature and art, power to think
    the true and to will the good, power to live the life of
    thought, and faith, and hope, and love.

--N.C. SCHAEFFER, _Thinking and Learning to Think_.