His very throat was moral. You saw a good deal of it. You looked
    over a very low fence of white cravat (whereof no man had ever
    beheld the tie, for he fastened it behind), and there it lay, a
    valley between two jutting heights of collar, serene and
    whiskerless before you. It seemed to say, on the part of Mr.
    Pecksniff, "There is no deception, ladies and gentlemen, all is
    peace, a holy calm pervades me." So did his hair, just grizzled
    with an iron gray, which was all brushed off his forehead, and
    stood bolt upright, or slightly drooped in kindred action with
    his heavy eyelids. So did his person, which was sleek though
    free from corpulency. So did his manner, which was soft and
    oily. In a word, even his plain black suit, and state of
    widower, and dangling double eye-glass, all tended to the same
    purpose, and cried aloud, "Behold the moral Pecksniff!"

--CHARLES DICKENS, _Martin Chuzzlewit_.

13. Which of the following do you prefer, and why?

She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen, plump as a partridge,
    ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father's
    peaches.

She was a splendidly feminine girl, as wholesome as a November
    pippin, and no more mysterious than a window-pane.

--O. HENRY.

Small, shining, neat, methodical, and buxom was Miss Peecher;
    cherry-cheeked and tuneful of voice.

14. Invent five epithets, and apply them as you choose (p. 235).

15. (_a_) Make a list of five figures of speech; (_b_) define them;
(_c_) give an example--preferably original--under each.

16. Pick out the figures of speech in the address by Grady, on page 240.

17. Invent an original figure to take the place of any one in Grady's
speech.

18. What sort of figures do you find in the selection from Stevenson, on
page 242?

19. What methods of description does he seem to prefer?

20. Write and deliver, without notes and with descriptive gestures, a
description in imitation of any of the authors quoted in this chapter.

21. Reexamine one of your past speeches and improve the descriptive
work. Report on what faults you found to exist.

22. Deliver an extemporaneous speech describing any dramatic scene in
the style of "Midnight in London."

23. Describe an event in your favorite sport in the style of Dr.
Talmage. Be careful to make the delivery effective.

24. Criticise, favorably or unfavorably, the descriptions of any travel
talk you may have heard recently.

25. Deliver a brief original travel talk, as though you were showing
pictures.

26. Recast the talk and deliver it "without pictures."

[Footnote 19: _Writing the Short-Story_, J. Berg Esenwein.]

[Footnote 20: For fuller treatment of Description see Genung's _Working
Principles of Rhetoric_, Albright's _Descriptive Writing_, Bates' _Talks
on Writing English_, first and second series, and any advanced
rhetoric.]

[Footnote 21: See also _The Art of Versification_, J. Berg Esenwein and
Mary Eleanor Roberts, pp. 28-35; and _Writing the Short-Story_, J. Berg
Esenwein, pp. 152-162; 231-240.]

[Footnote 22: In the Military College of Modena.]

[Footnote 23: This figure of speech is known as "Vision."]

CHAPTER XXI

INFLUENCING BY NARRATION

The art of narration is the art of writing in hooks and eyes.
    The principle consists in making the appropriate thought follow
    the appropriate thought, the proper fact the proper fact; in
    first preparing the mind for what is to come, and then letting
    it come.

--WALTER BAGEHOT, _Literary Studies_.

Our very speech is curiously historical. Most men, you may
    observe, speak only to narrate; not in imparting what they have
    thought, which indeed were often a very small matter, but in
    exhibiting what they have undergone or seen, which is a quite
    unlimited one, do talkers dilate. Cut us off from Narrative, how
    would the stream of conversation, even among the wisest,
    languish into detached handfuls, and among the foolish utterly
    evaporate! Thus, as we do nothing but enact History, we say
    little but recite it.

--THOMAS CARLYLE, _On History_.

Only a small segment of the great field of narration offers its
resources to the public speaker, and that includes the anecdote,
biographical facts, and the narration of events in general.

Narration--more easily defined than mastered--is the recital of an
incident, or a group of facts and occurrences, in such a manner as to
produce a desired effect.

The laws of narration are few, but its successful practise involves more
of art than would at first appear--so much, indeed, that we cannot even
touch upon its technique here, but must content ourselves with an
examination of a few examples of narration as used in public speech.

In a preliminary way, notice how radically the public speaker's use of
narrative differs from that of the story-writer in the more limited
scope, absence of extended dialogue and character drawing, and freedom
from elaboration of detail, which characterize platform narrative. On
the other hand, there are several similarities of method: the frequent
combination of narration with exposition, description, argumentation,
and pleading; the care exercised in the arrangement of material so as to
produce a strong effect at the close (climax); the very general practise
of concealing the "point" (denouement) of a story until the effective
moment; and the careful suppression of needless, and therefore hurtful,
details.

So we see that, whether for magazine or platform, the art of narration
involves far more than the recital of annals; the succession of events
recorded requires a _plan_ in order to bring them out with real effect.