"Yes, why not?" demanded the ministers, unconsciously caught in
    the net.

"I wanted one word," replied Tommy, unconsciously avoiding it.

"You jewel!" muttered Mr. Ogilvy under his breath, but Mr.
    Cathro would have banged the boy's head had not the ministers
    interfered.

"It is so easy, too, to find the right word," said Mr. Gloag.

"It's no; it's difficult as to hit a squirrel," cried Tommy, and
    again Mr. Ogilvy nodded approval.

*       *       *       *       *

And then an odd thing happened. As they were preparing to leave
    the school [Cathro having previously run Tommy out by the neck],
    the door opened a little and there appeared in the aperture the
    face of Tommy, tear-stained but excited. "I ken the word now,"
    he cried, "it came to me a' at once; it is hantle!"

Mr. Ogilvy ... said in an ecstasy to himself, "He _had_ to think
    of it till he got it--and he got it. The laddie is a genius!"

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. What is the derivation of the word _vocabulary_?

2. Briefly discuss any complete speech given in this volume, with
reference to (_a_) exactness, (_b_) variety, and (_c_) charm, in the use
of words.

3. Give original examples of the kinds of word-studies referred to on
pages 337 and 338.

4. Deliver a short talk on any subject, using at least five words which
have not been previously in your "dynamic" vocabulary.

5. Make a list of the unfamiliar words found in any address you may
select.

6. Deliver a short extemporaneous speech giving your opinions on the
merits and demerits of the use of unusual words in public speaking.

7. Try to find an example of the over-use of unusual words in a speech.

8. Have you used reference books in word studies? If so, state with what
result.

9. Find as many synonyms and antonyms as possible for each of the
following words: Excess, Rare, Severe, Beautiful, Clear, Happy,
Difference, Care, Skillful, Involve, Enmity, Profit, Absurd, Evident,
Faint, Friendly, Harmony, Hatred, Honest, Inherent.

[Footnote 32: _How to Attract and Hold an Audience_, J. Berg Esenwein.]

[Footnote 33: A book of synonyms and antonyms is in preparation for this
series, "The Writer's Library."]

[Footnote 34: _Composition and Rhetoric_, J.M. Hart.]

CHAPTER XXVIII

MEMORY TRAINING

Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain,
    Our thoughts are linked by many a hidden chain;
    Awake but one, and lo! what myriads rise!
    Each stamps its image as the other flies!

*       *       *       *       *

Hail, memory, hail! in thy exhaustless mine
    From age to age unnumber'd treasures shine!
    Thought and her shadowy brood thy call obey,
    And Place and Time are subject to thy sway!

--SAMUEL ROGERS, _Pleasures of Memory_.

Many an orator, like Thackeray, has made the best part of his speech to
himself--on the way home from the lecture hall. Presence of mind--it
remained for Mark Twain to observe--is greatly promoted by absence of
body. A hole in the memory is no less a common complaint than a
distressing one.

Henry Ward Beecher was able to deliver one of the world's greatest
addresses at Liverpool because of his excellent memory. In speaking of
the occasion Mr. Beecher said that all the events, arguments and appeals
that he had ever heard or read or written seemed to pass before his mind
as oratorical weapons, and standing there he had but to reach forth his
hand and "seize the weapons as they went smoking by." Ben Jonson could
repeat all he had written. Scaliger memorized the Iliad in three weeks.
Locke says: "Without memory, man is a perpetual infant." Quintilian and
Aristotle regarded it as a measure of genius.

Now all this is very good. We all agree that a reliable memory is an
invaluable possession for the speaker. We never dissent for a moment
when we are solemnly told that his memory should be a storehouse from
which at pleasure he can draw facts, fancies, and illustrations. But can
the memory be trained to act as the warder for all the truths that we
have gained from thinking, reading, and experience? And if so, how? Let
us see.

Twenty years ago a poor immigrant boy, employed as a dish washer in New
York, wandered into the Cooper Union and began to read a copy of Henry
George's "Progress and Poverty." His passion for knowledge was awakened,
and he became a habitual reader. But he found that he was not able to
remember what he read, so he began to train his naturally poor memory
until he became the world's greatest memory expert. This man was the
late Mr. Felix Berol. Mr. Berol could tell the population of any town in
the world, of more than five thousand inhabitants. He could recall the
names of forty strangers who had just been introduced to him and was
able to tell which had been presented third, eighth, seventeenth, or in
any order. He knew the date of every important event in history, and
could not only recall an endless array of facts but could correlate them
perfectly.

To what extent Mr. Berol's remarkable memory was natural and required
only attention, for its development, seems impossible to determine with
exactness, but the evidence clearly indicates that, however useless were
many of his memory feats, a highly retentive memory was developed where
before only "a good forgettery" existed.

The freak memory is not worth striving for, but a good working memory
decidedly is. Your power as a speaker will depend to a large extent upon
your ability to retain impressions and call them forth when occasion
demands, and that sort of memory is like muscle--it responds to
training.

_What Not to Do_