You must concentrate by resolutely withdrawing your attention from
everything else. If you concentrate your thought on a pain which may be
afflicting you, that pain will grow more intense. "Count your blessings"
and they will multiply. Center your thought on your strokes and your
tennis play will gradually improve. To concentrate is simply to attend
to one thing, and attend to nothing else. If you find that you cannot do
that, there is something wrong--attend to that first. Remove the cause
and the symptom will disappear. Read the chapter on "Will Power."
Cultivate your will by willing and then doing, at all costs.
Concentrate--and you will win.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Select from any source several sentences suitable for speaking aloud;
deliver them first in the manner condemned in this chapter, and second
with due regard for emphasis toward the close of each sentence.

2. Put into about one hundred words your impression of the effect
produced.

3. Tell of any peculiar methods you may have observed or heard of by
which speakers have sought to aid their powers of concentration, such as
looking fixedly at a blank spot in the ceiling, or twisting a watch
charm.

4. What effect do such habits have on the audience?

5. What relation does pause bear to concentration?

6. Tell why concentration naturally helps a speaker to change pitch,
tempo, and emphasis.

7. Read the following selection through to get its meaning and spirit
clearly in your mind. Then read it aloud, concentrating solely on the
thought that you are expressing--do not trouble about the sentence or
thought that is coming. Half the troubles of mankind arise from
anticipating trials that never occur. Avoid this in speaking. Make the
end of your sentences just as strong as the beginning. _CONCENTRATE._

The last of the savage instincts is war. The cave man's club
    made law and procured food. Might decreed right. Warriors were
    saviours.

In Nazareth a carpenter laid down the saw and preached the
    brotherhood of man. Twelve centuries afterwards his followers
    marched to the Holy Land to destroy all who differed with them
    in the worship of the God of Love. Triumphantly they wrote "In
    Solomon's Porch and in his temple our men rode in the blood of
    the Saracens up to the knees of their horses."

History is an appalling tale of war. In the seventeenth century
    Germany, France, Sweden, and Spain warred for thirty years. At
    Magdeburg 30,000 out of 36,000 were killed regardless of sex or
    age. In Germany schools were closed for a third of a century,
    homes burned, women outraged, towns demolished, and the untilled
    land became a wilderness.

Two-thirds of Germany's property was destroyed and 18,000,000 of
    her citizens were killed, because men quarrelled about the way
    to glorify "The Prince of Peace." Marching through rain and
    snow, sleeping on the ground, eating stale food or starving,
    contracting diseases and facing guns that fire six hundred times
    a minute, for fifty cents a day--this is the soldier's life.

At the window sits the widowed mother crying. Little children
    with tearful faces pressed against the pane watch and wait.
    Their means of livelihood, their home, their happiness is gone.
    Fatherless children, broken-hearted women, sick, disabled and
    dead men--this is the wage of war.

We spend more money preparing men to kill each other than we do
    in teaching them to live. We spend more money building one
    battleship than in the annual maintenance of all our state
    universities. The financial loss resulting from destroying one
    another's homes in the civil war would have built 15,000,000
    houses, each costing $2,000. We pray for love but prepare for
    hate. We preach peace but equip for war.

Were half the power that fills the world with terror,
      Were half the wealth bestowed on camp and court
      Given to redeem this world from error,
      There would be no need of arsenal and fort.

War only defers a question. No issue will ever really be settled
    until it is settled rightly. Like rival "gun gangs" in a back
    alley, the nations of the world, through the bloody ages, have
    fought over their differences. Denver cannot fight Chicago and
    Iowa cannot fight Ohio. Why should Germany be permitted to fight
    France, or Bulgaria fight Turkey?

When mankind rises above creeds, colors and countries, when we
    are citizens, not of a nation, but of the world, the armies and
    navies of the earth will constitute an international police
    force to preserve the peace and the dove will take the eagle's
    place.

Our differences will be settled by an international court with
    the power to enforce its mandates. In times of peace prepare for
    peace. The wages of war are the wages of sin, and the "wages of
    sin is death."

--_Editorial by D.C., Leslie's Weekly; used by permission._

However, 'tis expedient to be wary:
    Indifference, certes, don't produce distress;
    And rash enthusiasm in good society
    Were nothing but a moral inebriety.

--BYRON, _Don Juan_.

You have attended plays that seemed fair, yet they did not move you,
grip you. In theatrical parlance, they failed to "get over," which means
that their message did not get over the foot-lights to the audience.
There was no punch, no jab to them--they had no force.

Of course, all this spells disaster, in big letters, not only in a stage
production but in any platform effort. Every such presentation exists
solely for the audience, and if it fails to hit them--and the expression
is a good one--it has no excuse for living; nor will it live long.

_What is Force?_

Some of our most obvious words open up secret meanings under scrutiny,
and this is one of them.