The care of the aged is one of the most perplexing problems of modern
life. How is the workingman with less than five hundred dollars a year,
and with earning power waning as his own years advance, to provide for
aged parents or other relatives in addition to furnishing food, shelter
and clothing for his wife and children? What is to become of the family
of the laboring man whose strength has been sapped by excessive toil and
who has been thrown upon the industrial scrap heap? It is questions
like these we must answer if we are to justify free institutions. They
are questions to which the masses of people are chained as to a body of
death. And they are questions which other and poorer nations are
answering.

We progressives mean that America shall answer them. The Progressive
party is the helping hand to those whom a vicious industrialism has
maimed and crippled. We are for the conservation of our natural
resources; but even more we are for the conservation of human life. Our
forests, water power and minerals are valuable and must be saved from
the spoilers; but men, women and children are more valuable and they,
too, must be saved from the spoilers.

Because women, as much as men, are a part of our economic and social
life, women, as much as men, should have the voting power to solve all
economic and social problems. Votes for women are theirs as a matter of
natural right alone; votes for women should be theirs as a matter of
political wisdom also. As wage-earners, they should help to solve the
labor problem; as property owners they should help to solve the tax
problem; as wives and mothers they should help to solve all the problems
that concern the home. And that means all national problems; for the
Nation abides at the fireside.

If it is said that women cannot help defend the Nation in time of war
and therefore that they should not help to determine the Nation's
destinies in time of peace, the answer is that women suffer and serve in
time of conflict as much as men who carry muskets. And the deeper answer
is that those who bear the Nation's soldiers are as much the Nation's
defenders as their sons.

Public spokesmen for the invisible government say that many of our
reforms are unconstitutional. The same kind of men said the same thing
of every effort the Nation has made to end national abuses. But in every
case, whether in the courts, at the ballot box, or on the battlefield,
the vitality of the Constitution was vindicated.

The Progressive party believes that the Constitution is a living thing,
growing with the people's growth, strengthening with the people's
strength, aiding the people in their struggle for life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness, permitting the people to meet all their needs as
conditions change. The opposition believes that the Constitution is a
dead form, holding back the people's growth, shackling the people's
strength but giving a free hand to malign powers that prey upon the
people. The first words of the Constitution are "We the people," and
they declare that the Constitution's purpose is "to form a perfect Union
and to promote the general welfare." To do just that is the very heart
of the progressive cause.

The Progressive party asserts anew the vitality of the Constitution. We
believe in the true doctrine of states' rights, which forbids the Nation
from interfering with states' affairs, and also forbids the states from
interfering with national affairs. The combined intelligence and
composite conscience of the American people is as irresistible as it is
righteous; and the Constitution does not prevent that force from working
out the general welfare.

From certain sources we hear preachments about the danger of our reforms
to American institutions. What is the purpose of American institutions?
Why was this Republic established? What does the flag stand for? What do
these things mean?

They mean that the people shall be free to correct human abuses.

They mean that men, women and children shall not be denied the
opportunity to grow stronger and nobler.

They mean that the people shall have the power to make our land each day
a better place to live in.

They mean the realities of liberty and not the academics of theory.

They mean the actual progress of the race in tangible items of daily
living and not the theoretics of barren disputation.

If they do not mean these things they are as sounding brass and tinkling
cymbals.

A Nation of strong, upright men and women; a Nation of wholesome homes,
realizing the best ideals; a Nation whose power is glorified by its
justice and whose justice is the conscience of scores of millions of
God-fearing people--that is the Nation the people need and want. And
that is the Nation they shall have.

For never doubt that we Americans will make good the real meaning of our
institutions. Never doubt that we will solve, in righteousness and
wisdom, every vexing problem. Never doubt that in the end, the hand from
above that leads us upward will prevail over the hand from below that
drags us downward. Never doubt that we are indeed a Nation whose God is
the Lord.

And, so, never doubt that a braver, fairer, cleaner America surely will
come; that a better and brighter life for all beneath the flag surely
will be achieved. Those who now scoff soon will pray. Those who now
doubt soon will believe.

Soon the night will pass; and when, to the Sentinel on the ramparts of
Liberty the anxious ask: "Watchman, what of the night?" his answer will
be "Lo, the morn appeareth."

Knowing the price we must pay, the sacrifice we must make, the burdens
we must carry, the assaults we must endure--knowing full well the
cost--yet we enlist, and we enlist for the war. For we know the justice
of our cause, and we know, too, its certain triumph.