I shall refer to these horrible things no further. They are
    there. God pity me, I have seen them; they will remain in my
    mind forever--and this is almost the twentieth century. Christ
    died nineteen hundred years ago, and Spain is a Christian
    nation. She has set up more crosses in more lands, beneath more
    skies, and under them has butchered more people than all the
    other nations of the earth combined. Europe may tolerate her
    existence as long as the people of the Old World wish. God grant
    that before another Christmas morning the last vestige of
    Spanish tyranny and oppression will have vanished from the
    Western Hemisphere!...

The time for action has come. No greater reason for it can exist
    to-morrow than exists to-day. Every hour's delay only adds
    another chapter to the awful story of misery and death. Only one
    power can intervene--the United States of America. Ours is the
    one great nation in the world, the mother of American republics.
    She holds a position of trust and responsibility toward the
    peoples and affairs of the whole Western Hemisphere. It was her
    glorious example which inspired the patriots of Cuba to raise
    the flag of liberty in her eternal hills. We cannot refuse to
    accept this responsibility which the God of the universe has
    placed upon us as the one great power in the New World. We must
    act! What shall our action be?

Against the intervention of the United States in this holy cause
    there is but one voice of dissent; that voice is the voice of
    the money-changers. They fear war! Not because of any Christian
    or ennobling sentiment against war and in favor of peace, but
    because they fear that a declaration of war, or the intervention
    which might result in war, would have a depressing effect upon
    the stock market. Let them go. They do not represent American
    sentiment; they do not represent American patriotism. Let them
    take their chances as they can. Their weal or woe is of but
    little importance to the liberty-loving people of the United
    States. They will not do the fighting; their blood will not
    flow; they will keep on dealing in options on human life. Let
    the men whose loyalty is to the dollar stand aside while the men
    whose loyalty is to the flag come to the front.

Mr. President, there is only one action possible, if any is
    taken; that is, intervention for the independence of the island.
    But we cannot intervene and save Cuba without the exercise of
    force, and force means war; war means blood. The lowly Nazarene
    on the shores of Galilee preached the divine doctrine of love,
    "Peace on earth, good will toward men." Not peace on earth at
    the expense of liberty and humanity. Not good will toward men
    who despoil, enslave, degrade, and starve to death their
    fellow-men. I believe in the doctrine of Christ. I believe in
    the doctrine of peace; but, Mr. President, men must have liberty
    before there can come abiding peace.

Intervention means force. Force means war. War means blood. But
    it will be God's force. When has a battle for humanity and
    liberty ever been won except by force? What barricade of wrong,
    injustice, and oppression has ever been carried except by force?

Force compelled the signature of unwilling royalty to the great
    Magna Charta; force put life into the Declaration of
    Independence and made effective the Emancipation Proclamation;
    force beat with naked hands upon the iron gateway of the Bastile
    and made reprisal in one awful hour for centuries of kingly
    crime; force waved the flag of revolution over Bunker Hill and
    marked the snows of Valley Forge with blood-stained feet; force
    held the broken line of Shiloh, climbed the flame-swept hill at
    Chattanooga, and stormed the clouds on Lookout Heights; force
    marched with Sherman to the sea, rode with Sheridan in the
    valley of the Shenandoah, and gave Grant victory at Appomattox;
    force saved the Union, kept the stars in the flag, made
    "niggers" men. The time for God's force has come again. Let the
    impassioned lips of American patriots once more take up the
    song:--

"In the beauty of the lilies, Christ was born across the sea.
    With a glory in His bosom that transfigures you and me;
    As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men free.
         While God is marching on."

Others may hesitate, others may procrastinate, others may plead
    for further diplomatic negotiation, which means delay; but for
    me, I am ready to act now, and for my action I am ready to
    answer to my conscience, my country, and my God.

--JAMES MELLEN THURSTON.

PAUSE AND POWER

The true business of the literary artist is to plait or weave
    his meaning, involving it around itself; so that each sentence,
    by successive phrases, shall first come into a kind of knot, and
    then, after a moment of suspended meaning, solve and clear
    itself.

--GEORGE SAINTSBURY, on _English Prose Style_, in _Miscellaneous
    Essays_.

... pause ... has a distinctive value, expressed in silence; in
    other words, while the voice is waiting, the music of the
    movement is going on ... To manage it, with its delicacies and
    compensations, requires that same fineness of ear on which we
    must depend for all faultless prose rhythm. When there is no
    compensation, when the pause is inadvertent ... there is a sense
    of jolting and lack, as if some pin or fastening had fallen out.

--JOHN FRANKLIN GENUNG, _The Working Principles of Rhetoric_.

Pause, in public speech, is not mere silence--it is silence made
designedly eloquent.

When a man says: "I-uh-it is with profound-ah-pleasure that-er-I have
been permitted to speak to you tonight and-uh-uh-I should say-er"--that
is not pausing; that is stumbling. It is conceivable that a speaker may
be effective in spite of stumbling--but never because of it.