A book of verses underneath the bough,--a jug of wine, a loaf of
    bread--and thou beside me singing in the
    wilderness--Oh--wilderness were paradise enow.

You must not confuse the pause for emphasis with the natural pauses that
come through taking breath and phrasing. For example, note the pauses
indicated in this selection from Byron:

But _hush!_--_hark!_--that deep sound breaks in once more,
    And _nearer!_--_clearer!_--_deadlier_ than before.
    _Arm_, ARM!--it is--it is the cannon's opening roar!

It is not necessary to dwell at length upon these obvious distinctions.
You will observe that in natural conversation our words are gathered
into clusters or phrases, and we often pause to take breath between
them. So in public speech, breathe naturally and do not talk until you
must gasp for breath; nor until the audience is equally winded.

A serious word of caution must here be uttered: do not overwork the
pause. To do so will make your speech heavy and stilted. And do not
think that pause can transmute commonplace thoughts into great and
dignified utterance. A grand manner combined with insignificant ideas is
like harnessing a Hambletonian with an ass. You remember the farcical
old school declamation, "A Midnight Murder," that proceeded in grandiose
manner to a thrilling climax, and ended--"and relentlessly murdered--a
mosquito!"

The pause, dramatically handled, always drew a laugh from the tolerant
hearers. This is all very well in farce, but such anti-climax becomes
painful when the speaker falls from the sublime to the ridiculous quite
unintentionally. The pause, to be effective in some other manner than in
that of the boomerang, must precede or follow a thought that is really
worth while, or at least an idea whose bearing upon the rest of the
speech is important.

William Pittenger relates in his volume, "Extempore Speech," an instance
of the unconsciously farcical use of the pause by a really great
American statesman and orator. "He had visited Niagara Falls and was to
make an oration at Buffalo the same day, but, unfortunately, he sat too
long over the wine after dinner. When he arose to speak, the oratorical
instinct struggled with difficulties, as he declared, 'Gentlemen, I have
been to look upon your mag--mag--magnificent cataract, one hundred--and
forty--seven--feet high! Gentlemen, Greece and Rome in their palmiest
days never had a cataract one hundred--and forty--seven--feet high!'"

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Name four methods for destroying monotony and gaining power in
speaking.

2. What are the four special effects of pause?

3. Note the pauses in a conversation, play, or speech. Were they the
best that could have been used? Illustrate.

4. Read aloud selections on pages 50-54, paying special attention to
pause.

5. Read the following without making any pauses. Reread correctly and
note the difference:

Soon the night will pass; and when, of the Sentinel on the
    ramparts of Liberty the anxious ask: | "Watchman, what of the
    night?" his answer will be | "Lo, the morn appeareth."

Knowing the price we must pay, | the sacrifice | we must make, |
    the burdens | we must carry, | the assaults | we must endure, |
    knowing full well the cost, | yet we enlist, and we enlist | for
    the war. | For we know the justice of our cause, | and we know,
    too, its certain triumph. |

Not reluctantly, then, | but eagerly, | not with faint hearts, |
    but strong, do we now advance upon the enemies of the people. |
    For the call that comes to us is the call that came to our
    fathers. | As they responded, so shall we.

"He hath sounded forth a trumpet | that shall never call retreat,
    He is sifting out the hearts of men | before His judgment seat.
    Oh, be swift | our souls to answer Him, | be jubilant our feet,
    Our God | is marching on."

--ALBERT J. BEVERIDGE, _From his speech as temporary chairman of
    Progressive National Convention, Chicago, 1912_.

6. Bring out the contrasting ideas in the following by using the pause:

Contrast now the circumstances of your life and mine, gently and
    with temper, AEschines; and then ask these people whose fortune
    they would each of them prefer. You taught reading, I went to
    school: you performed initiations, I received them: you danced
    in the chorus, I furnished it: you were assembly-clerk, I was a
    speaker: you acted third parts, I heard you: you broke down, and
    I hissed: you have worked as a statesman for the enemy, I for my
    country. I pass by the rest; but this very day I am on my
    probation for a crown, and am acknowledged to be innocent of all
    offence; while you are already judged to be a pettifogger, and
    the question is, whether you shall continue that trade, or at
    once be silenced by not getting a fifth part of the votes. A
    happy fortune, do you see, you have enjoyed, that you should
    denounce mine as miserable!

--DEMOSTHENES.

7. After careful study and practice, mark the pauses in the following: