The appeal to prejudice is effective--though not often, if ever,
justifiable; yet so long as special pleading endures this sort of
persuasion will be resorted to. Rudyard Kipling uses this method--as
have many others on both sides--in discussing the great European war.
Mingled with the appeal to prejudice, Mr. Kipling uses the appeal to
self-interest; though not the highest, it is a powerful motive in all
our lives. Notice how at the last the pleader sweeps on to the highest
ground he can take. This is a notable example of progressive appeal,
beginning with a low motive and ending with a high one in such a way as
to carry all the force of prejudice yet gain all the value of patriotic
fervor.

Through no fault nor wish of ours we are at war with Germany,
    the power which owes its existence to three well-thought-out
    wars; the power which, for the last twenty years, has devoted
    itself to organizing and preparing for this war; the power which
    is now fighting to conquer the civilized world.

For the last two generations the Germans in their books,
    lectures, speeches and schools have been carefully taught that
    nothing less than this world-conquest was the object of their
    preparations and their sacrifices. They have prepared carefully
    and sacrificed greatly.

We must have men and men and men, if we, with our allies, are to
    check the onrush of organized barbarism.

Have no illusions. We are dealing with a strong and
    magnificently equipped enemy, whose avowed aim is our complete
    destruction. The violation of Belgium, the attack on France and
    the defense against Russia, are only steps by the way. The
    German's real objective, as she always has told us, is England,
    and England's wealth, trade and worldwide possessions.

If you assume, for an instant, that the attack will be
    successful, England will not be reduced, as some people say, to
    the rank of a second rate power, but we shall cease to exist as
    a nation. We shall become an outlying province of Germany, to be
    administered with that severity German safety and interest
    require.

We are against such a fate. We enter into a new life in which
    all the facts of war that we had put behind or forgotten for the
    last hundred years, have returned to the front and test us as
    they tested our fathers. It will be a long and a hard road,
    beset with difficulties and discouragements, but we tread it
    together and we will tread it together to the end.

Our petty social divisions and barriers have been swept away at
    the outset of our mighty struggle. All the interests of our life
    of six weeks ago are dead. We have but one interest now, and
    that touches the naked heart of every man in this island and in
    the empire.

If we are to win the right for ourselves and for freedom to
    exist on earth, every man must offer himself for that service
    and that sacrifice.

From these examples it will be seen that the particular way in which the
speakers appealed to their hearers was _by coming close home to their
interests, and by themselves showing emotion_--two very important
principles which you must keep constantly in mind.

To accomplish the former requires a deep knowledge of human motive in
general and an understanding of the particular audience addressed. What
are the motives that arouse men to action? Think of them earnestly, set
them down on the tablets of your mind, study how to appeal to them
worthily. Then, what motives would be likely to appeal to _your_
hearers? What are their ideals and interests in life? A mistake in your
estimate may cost you your case. To appeal to pride in appearance would
make one set of men merely laugh--to try to arouse sympathy for the Jews
in Palestine would be wasted effort among others. Study your audience,
feel your way, and when you have once raised a spark, fan it into a
flame by every honest resource you possess.

The larger your audience the more sure you are to find a universal basis
of appeal. A small audience of bachelors will not grow excited over the
importance of furniture insurance; most men can be roused to the defense
of the freedom of the press.

Patent medicine advertisement usually begins by talking about your
pains--they begin on your interests. If they first discussed the size
and rating of their establishment, or the efficacy of their remedy, you
would never read the "ad." If they can make you think you have nervous
troubles you will even plead for a remedy--they will not have to try to
sell it.

The patent medicine men are pleading--asking you to invest your money in
their commodity--yet they do not appear to be doing so. They get over on
your side of the fence, and arouse a desire for their nostrums by
appealing to your own interests.

Recently a book-salesman entered an attorney's office in New York and
inquired: "Do you want to buy a book?" Had the lawyer wanted a book he
would probably have bought one without waiting for a book-salesman to
call. The solicitor made the same mistake as the representative who made
his approach with: "I want to sell you a sewing machine." They both
talked only in terms of their own interests.

The successful pleader must convert his arguments into terms of his
hearers' advantage. Mankind are still selfish, are interested in what
will serve them. Expunge from your address your own personal concern
and present your appeal in terms of the general good, and to do this you
need not be insincere, for you had better not plead any cause that is
_not_ for the hearers' good. Notice how Senator Thurston in his plea for
intervention in Cuba and Mr. Bryan in his "Cross of Gold" speech
constituted themselves the apostles of humanity.