Oh, gentlemen, am I this day only the counsel of my client? No,
    no; I am the advocate of humanity--of yourselves--your
    homes--your wives--your families--your little children. I am
    glad that this case exhibits such atrocity; unmarked as it is by
    any mitigatory feature, it may stop the frightful advance of
    this calamity; it will be met now, and marked with vengeance. If
    it be not, farewell to the virtues of your country; farewell to
    all confidence between man and man; farewell to that
    unsuspicious and reciprocal tenderness, without which marriage
    is but a consecrated curse. If oaths are to be violated, laws
    disregarded, friendship betrayed, humanity trampled, national
    and individual honor stained, and if a jury of fathers and of
    husbands will give such miscreancy a passport to their homes,
    and wives, and daughters,--farewell to all that yet remains of
    Ireland! But I will not cast such a doubt upon the character of
    my country. Against the sneer of the foe, and the skepticism of
    the foreigner, I will still point to the domestic virtues, that
    no perfidy could barter, and no bribery can purchase, that with
    a Roman usage, at once embellish and consecrate households,
    giving to the society of the hearth all the purity of the altar;
    that lingering alike in the palace and the cottage, are still to
    be found scattered over this land--the relic of what she
    was--the source perhaps of what she may be--the lone, the
    stately, and magnificent memorials, that rearing their majesty
    amid surrounding ruins, serve at once as the landmarks of the
    departed glory, and the models by which the future may be
    erected.

Preserve those virtues with a vestal fidelity; mark this day, by
    your verdict, your horror of their profanation; and believe me,
    when the hand which records that verdict shall be dust, and the
    tongue that asks it, traceless in the grave, many a happy home
    will bless its consequences, and many a mother teach her little
    child to hate the impious treason of adultery.

--CHARLES PHILLIPS.

2. Analyze and criticise the forms of appeal used in the selections from
Hoar, Story, and Kipling.

3. What is the type of persuasion used by Senator Thurston (page 50)?

4. Cite two examples each, from selections in this volume, in which
speakers sought to be persuasive by securing the hearers' (_a_) sympathy
for themselves; (_b_) sympathy with their subjects; (_c_) self-pity.

5. Make a short address using persuasion.

6. What other methods of persuasion than those here mentioned can you
name?

7. Is it easier to persuade men to change their course of conduct than
to persuade them to continue in a given course? Give examples to support
your belief.

8. In how far are we justified in making an appeal to self-interest in
order to lead men to adopt a given course?

9. Does the merit of the course have any bearing on the merit of the
methods used?

10. Illustrate an unworthy method of using persuasion.

11. Deliver a short speech on the value of skill in persuasion.

12. Does effective persuasion always produce conviction?

13. Does conviction always result in action?

14. Is it fair for counsel to appeal to the emotions of a jury in a
murder trial?

15. Ought the judge use persuasion in making his charge?

16. Say how self-consciousness may hinder the power of persuasion in a
speaker.

17. Is emotion without words ever persuasive? If so, illustrate.

18. Might gestures without words be persuasive? If so, illustrate.

19. Has posture in a speaker anything to do with persuasion? Discuss.

20. Has voice? Discuss.

21. Has manner? Discuss.

22. What effect does personal magnetism have in producing conviction?

23. Discuss the relation of persuasion to (_a_) description; (_b_)
narration; (_c_) exposition; (_d_) pure reason.

24. What is the effect of over-persuasion?

25. Make a short speech on the effect of the constant use of persuasion
on the sincerity of the speaker himself.

26. Show by example how a general statement is not as persuasive as a
concrete example illustrating the point being discussed.

27. Show by example how brevity is of value in persuasion.

28. Discuss the importance of avoiding an antagonistic attitude in
persuasion.

29. What is the most persuasive passage you have found in the selections
of this volume. On what do you base your decision?

30. Cite a persuasive passage from some other source. Read or recite it
aloud.

31. Make a list of the emotional bases of appeal, grading them from low
to high, according to your estimate.

32. Would circumstances make any difference in such grading? If so, give
examples.

33. Deliver a short, passionate appeal to a jury, pleading for justice
to a poor widow.

34. Deliver a short appeal to men to give up some evil way.

35. Criticise the structure of the sentence beginning with the last line
of page 296.

CHAPTER XXV

INFLUENCING THE CROWD

Success in business, in the last analysis, turns upon touching
   the imagination of crowds. The reason that preachers in this
   present generation are less successful in getting people to want
   goodness than business men are in getting them to want motorcars,
   hats, and pianolas, is that business men as a class are more
   close and desperate students of human nature, and have boned down
   harder to the art of touching the imaginations of the crowds.

--GERALD STANLEY LEE, _Crowds_.

In the early part of July, 1914, a collection of Frenchmen in Paris, or
Germans in Berlin, was not a crowd in a psychological sense. Each
individual had his own special interests and needs, and there was no
powerful common idea to unify them. A group then represented only a
collection of individuals. A month later, any collection of Frenchmen or
Germans formed a crowd: Patriotism, hate, a common fear, a pervasive
grief, had unified the individuals.