Let me ask you to imagine that the contest, in which the United
    States asserted their independence of Great Britain, had been
    unsuccessful; that our armies, through treason or a league of
    tyrants against us, had been broken and scattered; that the
    great men who led them, and who swayed our councils--our
    Washington, our Franklin, and the venerable president of the
    American Congress--had been driven forth as exiles. If there had
    existed at that day, in any part of the civilized world, a
    powerful Republic, with institutions resting on the same
    foundations of liberty which our own countrymen sought to
    establish, would there have been in that Republic any
    hospitality too cordial, any sympathy too deep, any zeal for
    their glorious but unfortunate cause, too fervent or too active
    to be shown toward these illustrious fugitives? Gentlemen, the
    case I have supposed is before you. The Washingtons, the
    Franklins, the Hancocks of Hungary, driven out by a far worse
    tyranny than was ever endured here, are wanderers in foreign
    lands. Some of them have sought a refuge in our country--one
    sits with this company our guest to-night--and we must measure
    the duty we owe them by the same standard which we would have
    had history apply, if our ancestors had met with a fate like
    theirs.

--WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

_THE INFLUENCE OF UNIVERSITIES_

When the excitement of party warfare presses dangerously near
    our national safeguards, I would have the intelligent
    conservatism of our universities and colleges warn the
    contestants in impressive tones against the perils of a breach
    impossible to repair.

When popular discontent and passion are stimulated by the arts
    of designing partisans to a pitch perilously near to class
    hatred or sectional anger, I would have our universities and
    colleges sound the alarm in the name of American brotherhood and
    fraternal dependence.

When the attempt is made to delude the people into the belief
    that their suffrages can change the operation of national laws,
    I would have our universities and colleges proclaim that those
    laws are inexorable and far removed from political control.

When selfish interest seeks undue private benefits through
    governmental aid, and public places are claimed as rewards of
    party service, I would have our universities and colleges
    persuade the people to a relinquishment of the demand for party
    spoils and exhort them to a disinterested and patriotic love of
    their government, whose unperverted operation secures to every
    citizen his just share of the safety and prosperity it holds in
    store for all.

I would have the influence of these institutions on the side of
    religion and morality. I would have those they send out among
    the people not ashamed to acknowledge God, and to proclaim His
    interposition in the affairs of men, enjoining such obedience to
    His laws as makes manifest the path of national perpetuity and
    prosperity

--GROVER CLEVELAND, delivered at the Princeton
    Sesqui-Centennial, 1896.

_EULOGY OF GARFIELD_

Great in life, he was surpassingly great in death. For no cause,
    in the very frenzy of wantonness and wickedness, by the red hand
    of murder, he was thrust from the full tide of this world's
    interest, from its hopes, its aspirations, its victories, into
    the visible presence of death--and he did not quail. Not alone
    for the one short moment in which, stunned and dazed, he could
    give up life, hardly aware of its relinquishment, but through
    days of deadly languor, through weeks of agony, that was not
    less agony because silently borne, with clear sight and calm
    courage, he looked into his open grave. What blight and ruin met
    his anguished eyes, whose lips may tell--what brilliant, broken
    plans, what baffled, high ambitions, what sundering of strong,
    warm, manhood's friendships, what bitter rending of sweet
    household ties! Behind him a proud, expectant nation, a great
    host of sustaining friends, a cherished and happy mother,
    wearing the full rich honors of her early toil and tears; the
    wife of his youth, whose whole life lay in his; the little boys
    not yet emerged from childhood's day of frolic; the fair young
    daughter; the sturdy sons just springing into closest
    companionship, claiming every day and every day rewarding a
    father's love and care; and in his heart the eager, rejoicing
    power to meet all demand. Before him, desolation and great
    darkness! And his soul was not shaken. His countrymen were
    thrilled with instant, profound and universal sympathy.
    Masterful in his mortal weakness, he became the centre of a
    nation's love, enshrined in the prayers of a world. But all the
    love and all the sympathy could not share with him his
    suffering. He trod the wine press alone. With unfaltering front
    he faced death. With unfailing tenderness he took leave of life.
    Above the demoniac hiss of the assassin's bullet he heard the
    voice of God. With simple resignation he bowed to the Divine
    decree.

--JAMES G. BLAINE, delivered at the memorial service held
    by the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives.

_EULOGY OF LEE_