"As a vessel is known by the sound, whether it be cracked or not," said
Demosthenes, "so men are proved by their speeches whether they be wise
or foolish." Surely the occasional address furnishes a severe test of a
speaker's wisdom. To be trivial on a serious occasion, to be funereal at
a banquet, to be long-winded ever--these are the marks of non-sense.
Some imprudent souls seem to select the most friendly of after-dinner
occasions for the explosion of a bomb-shell of dispute. Around the
dinner table it is the custom of even political enemies to bury their
hatchets anywhere rather than in some convenient skull. It is the height
of bad taste to raise questions that in hours consecrated to good-will
can only irritate.

Occasional speeches offer good chances for humor, particularly the funny
story, for humor with a genuine point is not trivial. But do not spin a
whole skein of humorous yarns with no more connection than the inane and
threadbare "And that reminds me." An anecdote without bearing may be
funny but one less funny that fits theme and occasion is far preferable.
There is no way, short of sheer power of speech, that so surely leads to
the heart of an audience as rich, appropriate humor. The scattered
diners in a great banqueting hall, the after-dinner lethargy, the
anxiety over approaching last-train time, the over-full list of
over-full speakers--all throw out a challenge to the speaker to do his
best to win an interested hearing. And when success does come it is
usually due to a happy mixture of seriousness and humor, for humor alone
rarely scores so heavily as the two combined, while the utterly grave
speech _never_ does on such occasions.

If there is one place more than another where second-hand opinions and
platitudes are unwelcome it is in the after-dinner speech. Whether you
are toast-master or the last speaker to try to hold the waning crowd at
midnight, be as original as you can. How is it possible to summarize the
qualities that go to make up the good after-dinner speech, when we
remember the inimitable serious-drollery of Mark Twain, the sweet
southern eloquence of Henry W. Grady, the funereal gravity of the
humorous Charles Battell Loomis, the charm of Henry Van Dyke, the
geniality of F. Hopkinson Smith, and the all-round delightfulness of
Chauncey M. Depew? America is literally rich in such gladsome speakers,
who punctuate real sense with nonsense, and so make both effective.

Commemorative occasions, unveilings, commencements, dedications,
eulogies, and all the train of special public gatherings, offer rare
opportunities for the display of tact and good sense in handling
occasion, theme, and audience. When to be dignified and when colloquial,
when to soar and when to ramble arm in arm with your hearers, when to
flame and when to soothe, when to instruct and when to amuse--in a word,
the whole matter of APPROPRIATENESS must constantly be in mind lest you
write your speech on water.

Finally, remember the beatitude: Blessed is the man that maketh short
speeches, for he shall be invited to speak again.

SELECTIONS FOR STUDY

_LAST DAYS OF THE CONFEDERACY_

The Rapidan suggests another scene to which allusion has often
    been made since the war, but which, as illustrative also of the
    spirit of both armies, I may be permitted to recall in this
    connection. In the mellow twilight of an April day the two
    armies were holding their dress parades on the opposite hills
    bordering the river. At the close of the parade a magnificent
    brass band of the Union army played with great spirit the
    patriotic airs, "Hail Columbia," and "Yankee Doodle." Whereupon
    the Federal troops responded with a patriotic shout. The same
    band then played the soul-stirring strains of "Dixie," to which
    a mighty response came from ten thousand Southern troops. A few
    moments later, when the stars had come out as witnesses and when
    all nature was in harmony, there came from the same band the old
    melody, "Home, Sweet Home." As its familiar and pathetic notes
    rolled over the water and thrilled through the spirits of the
    soldiers, the hills reverberated with a thundering response from
    the united voices of both armies. What was there in this old,
    old music, to so touch the chords of sympathy, so thrill the
    spirits and cause the frames of brave men to tremble with
    emotion? It was the thought of home. To thousands, doubtless, it
    was the thought of that Eternal Home to which the next battle
    might be the gateway. To thousands of others it was the thought
    of their dear earthly homes, where loved ones at that twilight
    hour were bowing round the family altar, and asking God's care
    over the absent soldier boy.

--GENERAL J.B. GORDON, C.S.A.

_WELCOME TO KOSSUTH_