I remember, not many years ago a young theological student who came into
my office and said to me that he thought it was his duty to come in and
"labor with me." I asked him what had happened, and he said: "I feel it
is my duty to come in and speak to you, sir, and say that the Holy
Scriptures declare that money is the root of all evil." I asked him
where he found that saying, and he said he found it in the Bible. I
asked him whether he had made a new Bible, and he said, no, he had not
gotten a new Bible, that it was in the old Bible. "Well," I said, "if it
is in my Bible, I never saw it. Will you please get the text-book and
let me see it?" He left the room and soon came stalking in with his
Bible open, with all the bigoted pride of the narrow sectarian, who
founds his creed on some misinterpretation of Scripture, and he put the
Bible down on the table before me and fairly squealed into my ear,
"There it is. You can read it for yourself." I said to him, "Young man,
you will learn, when you get a little older, that you cannot trust
another denomination to read the Bible for you." I said, "Now, you
belong to another denomination. Please read it to me, and remember that
you are taught in a school where emphasis is exegesis." So he took the
Bible and read it: "The _love_ of money is the root of all evil." Then
he had it right. The Great Book has come back into the esteem and love
of the people, and into the respect of the greatest minds of earth, and
now you can quote it and rest your life and your death on it without
more fear. So, when he quoted right from the Scriptures he quoted the
truth. "The love of money is the root of all evil." Oh, that is it. It
is the worship of the means instead of the end, though you cannot reach
the end without the means. When a man makes an idol of the money instead
of the purposes for which it may be used, when he squeezes the dollar
until the eagle squeals, then it is made the root of all evil. Think, if
you only had the money, what you could do for your wife, your child, and
for your home and your city. Think how soon you could endow the Temple
College yonder if you only had the money and the disposition to give it;
and yet, my friend, people say you and I should not spend the time
getting rich. How inconsistent the whole thing is. We ought to be rich,
because money has power. I think the best thing for me to do is to
illustrate this, for if I say you ought to get rich, I ought, at least,
to suggest how it is done. We get a prejudice against rich men because
of the lies that are told about them. The lies that are told about Mr.
Rockefeller because he has two hundred million dollars--so many believe
them; yet how false is the representation of that man to the world. How
little we can tell what is true nowadays when newspapers try to sell
their papers entirely on some sensation! The way they lie about the rich
men is something terrible, and I do not know that there is anything to
illustrate this better than what the newspapers now say about the city
of Philadelphia. A young man came to me the other day and said, "If Mr.
Rockefeller, as you think, is a good man, why is it that everybody says
so much against him?" It is because he has gotten ahead of us; that is
the whole of it--just gotten ahead of us. Why is it Mr. Carnegie is
criticised so sharply by an envious world? Because he has gotten more
than we have. If a man knows more than I know, don't I incline to
criticise somewhat his learning? Let a man stand in a pulpit and preach
to thousands, and if I have fifteen people in my church, and they're all
asleep, don't I criticise him? We always do that to the man who gets
ahead of us. Why, the man you are criticising has one hundred millions,
and you have fifty cents, and both of you have just what you are worth.
One of the richest men in this country came into my home and sat down in
my parlor and said: "Did you see all those lies about my family in the
paper?" "Certainly I did; I knew they were lies when I saw them." "Why
do they lie about me the way they do?" "Well," I said to him, "if you
will give me your check for one hundred millions, I will take all the
lies along with it." "Well," said he, "I don't see any sense in their
thus talking about my family and myself. Conwell, tell me frankly, what
do you think the American people think of me?" "Well," said I, "they
think you are the blackest-hearted villain that ever trod the soil!"
"But what can I do about it?" There is nothing he can do about it, and
yet he is one of the sweetest Christian men I ever knew. If you get a
hundred millions you will have the lies; you will be lied about, and you
can judge your success in any line by the lies that are told about you.
I say that you ought to be rich. But there are ever coming to me young
men who say, "I would like to go into business, but I cannot." "Why
not?" "Because I have no capital to begin on." Capital, capital to begin
on! What! young man! Living in Philadelphia and looking at this wealthy
generation, all of whom began as poor boys, and you want capital to
begin on? It is fortunate for you that you have no capital. I am glad
you have no money. I pity a rich man's son. A rich man's son in these
days of ours occupies a very difficult position. They are to be pitied.
A rich man's son cannot know the very best things in human life. He
cannot. The statistics of Massachusetts show us that not one out of
seventeen rich men's sons ever die rich. They are raised in luxury, they
die in poverty. Even if a rich man's son retains his father's money even
then he cannot know the best things of life.