Avoid platitudes and hackneyed phrases. If you meet a friend from Keokuk
on State Street or on Pike's Peak, it is not necessary to observe: "How
small this world is after all!" This observation was doubtless made
prior to the formation of Pike's Peak. "This old world is getting better
every day." "Fanner's wives do not have to work as hard as formerly."
"It is not so much the high cost of living as the cost of high living."
Such observations as these excite about the same degree of admiration as
is drawn out by the appearance of a 1903-model touring car. If you have
nothing fresh or interesting you can always remain silent. How would you
like to read a newspaper that flashed out in bold headlines "Nice
Weather We Are Having," or daily gave columns to the same old material
you had been reading week after week?

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Give a short speech describing the conversational bore.

2. In a few words give your idea of a charming converser.

3. What qualities of the orator should _not_ be used in conversation.

4. Give a short humorous delineation of the conversational "oracle."

5. Give an account of your first day at observing conversation around
you.

6. Give an account of one day's effort to improve your own conversation.

7. Give a list of subjects you heard discussed during any recent period
you may select.

8. What is meant by "elastic touch" in conversation?

9. Make a list of "Bromides," as Gellett Burgess calls those threadbare
expressions which "bore us to extinction"--itself a Bromide.

10. What causes a phrase to become hackneyed?

11. Define the words, (_a_) trite; (_b_) solecism; (_c_) colloquialism;
(_d_) slang; (_e_) vulgarism; (_f_) neologism.

12. What constitutes pretentious talk?

FIFTY QUESTIONS FOR DEBATE

1. Has Labor Unionism justified its existence?

2. Should all church printing be brought out under the Union Label?

3. Is the Open Shop a benefit to the community?

4. Should arbitration of industrial disputes be made compulsory?

5. Is Profit-Sharing a solution of the wage problem?

6. Is a minimum wage law desirable?

7. Should the eight-hour day be made universal in America?

8. Should the state compensate those who sustain irreparable business
loss because of the enactment of laws prohibiting the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating drinks?

9. Should public utilities be owned by the municipality?

10. Should marginal trading in stocks be prohibited?

11. Should the national government establish a compulsory system of
old-age insurance by taxing the incomes of those to be benefited?

12. Would the triumph of socialistic principles result in deadening
personal ambition?

13. Is the Presidential System a better form of government for the
United States than the Parliamental System?

14. Should our legislation be shaped toward the gradual abandonment of
the protective tariff?

15. Should the government of the larger cities be vested solely in a
commission of not more than nine men elected by the voters at large?

16. Should national banks be permitted to issue, subject to tax and
government supervision, notes based on their general assets?

17. Should woman be given the ballot on the present basis of suffrage
for men?

18. Should the present basis of suffrage be restricted?

19. Is the hope of permanent world-peace a delusion?

20. Should the United States send a diplomatic representative to the
Vatican?

21. Should the Powers of the world substitute an international police
for national standing armies?

22. Should the United States maintain the Monroe Doctrine?

23. Should the Recall of Judges be adopted?

24. Should the Initiative and Referendum be adopted as a national
principle?

25. Is it desirable that the national government should own all
railroads operating in interstate territory?

26. Is it desirable that the national government should own interstate
telegraph and telephone systems?

27. Is the national prohibition of the liquor traffic an economic
necessity?

28. Should the United States army and navy be greatly strengthened?

29. Should the same standards of altruism obtain in the relations of
nations as in those of individuals?

30. Should our government be more highly centralized?

31. Should the United States continue its policy of opposing the
combination of railroads?

32. In case of personal injury to a workman arising out of his
employment, should his employer be liable for adequate compensation and
be forbidden to set up as a defence a plea of contributory negligence on
the part of the workman, or the negligence of a fellow workman?

33. Should all corporations doing an interstate business be required to
take out a Federal license?

34. Should the amount of property that can be transferred by inheritance
be limited by law?

35. Should equal compensation for equal labor, between women and men,
universally prevail?

36. Does equal suffrage tend to lessen the interest of woman in her
home?

37. Should the United States take advantage of the commercial and
industrial weakness of foreign nations, brought about by the war, by
trying to wrest from them their markets in Central and South America?

38. Should teachers of small children in the public schools be selected
from among mothers?

39. Should football be restricted to colleges, for the sake of physical
safety?

40. Should college students who receive compensation for playing summer
baseball be debarred from amateur standing?

41. Should daily school-hours and school vacations both be shortened?

42. Should home-study for pupils in grade schools be abolished and
longer school-hours substituted?

43. Should the honor system in examinations be adopted in public
high-schools?

44. Should all colleges adopt the self-government system for its
students?

45. Should colleges be classified by national law and supervision, and
uniform entrance and graduation requirements maintained by each college
in a particular class?