Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear! How little that good, old man knew about
war. If he had known anything about war, he ought to have known what any
soldier in this audience knows is true, that it is next to a crime for
an officer of infantry ever in time of danger to go ahead of his men. I,
with my shining sword flashing in the sunlight, shouting to my troops:
"Come on." I never did it. Do you suppose I would go ahead of my men to
be shot in the front by the enemy and in the back by my own men? That is
no place for an officer. The place for the officer is behind the private
soldier in actual fighting. How often, as a staff officer, I rode down
the line when the Rebel cry and yell was coming out of the woods,
sweeping along over the fields, and shouted, "Officers to the rear!
Officers to the rear!" and then every officer goes behind the line of
battle, and the higher the officer's rank, the farther behind he goes.
Not because he is any the less brave, but because the laws of war
require that to be done. If the general came up on the front line and
were killed you would lose your battle anyhow, because he has the plan
of the battle in his brain, and must be kept in comparative safety. I,
with my "shining sword flashing in the sunlight." Ah! There sat in the
hall that day men who had given that boy their last hard-tack, who had
carried him on their backs through deep rivers. But some were not there;
they had gone down to death for their country. The speaker mentioned
them, but they were but little noticed, and yet they had gone down to
death for their country, gone down for a cause they believed was right
and still believe was right, though I grant to the other side the same
that I ask for myself. Yet these men who had actually died for their
country were little noticed, and the hero of the hour was this boy. Why
was he the hero? Simply because that man fell into that same
foolishness. This boy was an officer, and those were only private
soldiers. I learned a lesson that I will never forget. Greatness
consists not in holding some office; greatness really consists in doing
some great deed with little means, in the accomplishment of vast
purposes from the private ranks of life; that is true greatness. He who
can give to this people better streets, better homes, better schools,
better churches, more religion, more of happiness, more of God, he that
can be a blessing to the community in which he lives to-night will be
great anywhere, but he who cannot be a blessing where he now lives will
never be great anywhere on the face of God's earth. "We live in deeds,
not years, in feeling, not in figures on a dial; in thoughts, not
breaths; we should count time by heart throbs, in the cause of right."
Bailey says: "He most lives who thinks most."

If you forget everything I have said to you, do not forget this, because
it contains more in two lines than all I have said. Bailey says: "He
most lives who thinks most, who feels the noblest, and who acts the
best."

_VICTOR HUGO_

HONORE DE BALZAC

Delivered at the Funeral of Balzac, August 20, 1850.

Gentlemen: The man who now goes down into this tomb is one of those to
whom public grief pays homage.

In one day all fictions have vanished. The eye is fixed not only on the
heads that reign, but on heads that think, and the whole country is
moved when one of those heads disappears. To-day we have a people in
black because of the death of the man of talent; a nation in mourning
for a man of genius.

Gentlemen, the name of Balzac will be mingled in the luminous trace our
epoch will leave across the future.

Balzac was one of that powerful generation of writers of the nineteenth
century who came after Napoleon, as the illustrious Pleiad of the
seventeenth century came after Richelieu,--as if in the development of
civilization there were a law which gives conquerors by the intellect as
successors to conquerors by the sword.

Balzac was one of the first among the greatest, one of the highest among
the best. This is not the place to tell all that constituted this
splendid and sovereign intelligence. All his books form but one book,--a
book living, luminous, profound, where one sees coming and going and
marching and moving, with I know not what of the formidable and
terrible, mixed with the real, all our contemporary civilization;--a
marvelous book which the poet entitled "a comedy" and which he could
have called history; which takes all forms and all style, which
surpasses Tacitus and Suetonius; which traverses Beaumarchais and
reaches Rabelais;--a book which realizes observation and imagination,
which lavishes the true, the esoteric, the commonplace, the trivial, the
material, and which at times through all realities, swiftly and grandly
rent away, allows us all at once a glimpse of a most sombre and tragic
ideal. Unknown to himself, whether he wished it or not, whether he
consented or not, the author of this immense and strange work is one of
the strong race of Revolutionist writers. Balzac goes straight to the
goal.

Body to body he seizes modern society; from all he wrests something,
from these an illusion, from those a hope; from one a catch-word, from
another a mask. He ransacked vice, he dissected passion. He searched out
and sounded man, soul, heart, entrails, brain,--the abyss that each one
has within himself. And by grace of his free and vigorous nature; by a
privilege of the intellect of our time, which, having seen revolutions
face to face, can see more clearly the destiny of humanity and
comprehend Providence better,--Balzac redeemed himself smiling and
severe from those formidable studies which produced melancholy in
Moliere and misanthropy in Rousseau.

This is what he has accomplished among us, this is the work which he has
left us,--a work lofty and solid,--a monument robustly piled in layers
of granite, from the height of which hereafter his renown shall shine in
splendor. Great men make their own pedestal, the future will be
answerable for the statue.