_Example is a powerful means of suggestion._ As we saw while thinking of
environment in its effects on an audience, we do, without the usual
amount of hesitation and criticism, what others are doing. Paris wears
certain hats and gowns; the rest of the world imitates. The child mimics
the actions, accents and intonations of the parent. Were a child never
to hear anyone speak, he would never acquire the power of speech, unless
under most arduous training, and even then only imperfectly. One of the
biggest department stores in the United States spends fortunes on one
advertising slogan: "Everybody is going to the big store." That makes
everybody want to go.

You can reinforce the power of your message by showing that it has been
widely accepted. Political organizations subsidize applause to create
the impression that their speakers' ideas are warmly received and
approved by the audience. The advocates of the commission-form of
government of cities, the champions of votes for women, reserve as their
strongest arguments the fact that a number of cities and states have
already successfully accepted their plans. Advertisements use the
testimonial for its power of suggestion.

Observe how this principle has been applied in the following selections,
and utilize it on every occasion possible in your attempts to influence
through suggestion:

The war is actually begun. The next gale that sweeps from the
    North will bring to our ears the clash of resounding arms. Our
    brethren are already in the field. Why stand ye here idle?

--PATRICK HENRY.

With a zeal approaching the zeal which inspired the Crusaders
    who followed Peter the Hermit, our silver Democrats went forth
    from victory unto victory until they are now assembled, not to
    discuss, not to debate, but to enter up the judgment already
    rendered by the plain people of this country. In this contest
    brother has been arrayed against brother, father against son.
    The warmest ties of love, acquaintance, and association have
    been disregarded; old leaders have been cast aside when they
    refused to give expression to the sentiments of those whom they
    would lead, and new leaders have sprung up to give direction to
    this cause of truth. Thus has the contest been waged, and we
    have assembled here under as binding and solemn instructions as
    were ever imposed upon representatives of the people.

--WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN.

_Figurative and indirect language has suggestive force_, because it does
not make statements that can be directly disputed. It arouses no
contradictory ideas in the minds of the audience, thereby fulfilling one
of the basic requisites of suggestion. By _implying_ a conclusion in
indirect or figurative language it is often asserted most forcefully.

Note that in the following Mr. Bryan did not say that Mr. McKinley would
be defeated. He implied it in a much more effective manner:

Mr. McKinley was nominated at St. Louis upon a platform which
    declared for the maintenance of the gold standard until it can
    be changed into bimetallism by international agreement. Mr.
    McKinley was the most popular man among the Republicans, and
    three months ago everybody in the Republican party prophesied
    his election. How is it today? Why, the man who was once pleased
    to think that he looked like Napoleon--that man shudders today
    when he remembers that he was nominated on the anniversary of
    the battle of Waterloo. Not only that, but as he listens he can
    hear with ever-increasing distinctness the sound of the waves as
    they beat upon the lonely shores of St. Helena.

Had Thomas Carlyle said: "A false man cannot found a religion," his
words would have been neither so suggestive nor so powerful, nor so long
remembered as his implication in these striking words:

A false man found a religion? Why, a false man cannot build a
    brick house! If he does not know and follow truly the properties
    of mortar, burnt clay, and what else he works in, it is no house
    that he makes, but a rubbish heap. It will not stand for twelve
    centuries, to lodge a hundred and eighty millions; it will fall
    straightway. A man must conform himself to Nature's laws, be
    verily in communion with Nature and the truth of things, or
    Nature will answer him, No, not at all!

Observe how the picture that Webster draws here is much more emphatic
and forceful than any mere assertion could be:

Sir, I know not how others may feel, but as for myself when I
    see my _alma mater_ surrounded, like Caesar in the senate house,
    by those who are reiterating stab after stab, I would not for
    this right hand have her turn to me and say, "And thou, too, my
    son!"

A speech should be built on sound logical foundations, and no man should
dare to speak in behalf of a fallacy. Arguing a subject, however, will
necessarily arouse contradictory ideas in the mind of your audience.
When immediate action or persuasion is desired, suggestion is more
efficacious than argument--when both are judiciously mixed, the effect
is irresistible.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Make an outline, or brief, of the contents of this chapter.

2. Revise the introduction to any of your written addresses, with the
teachings of this chapter in mind.

3. Give two original examples of the power of suggestion as you have
observed it in each of these fields: (_a_) advertising; (=b=) politics;
(_c_) public sentiment.

4. Give original examples of suggestive speech, illustrating two of the
principles set forth in this chapter.

5. What reasons can you give that disprove the general contention of
this chapter?

6. What reasons not already given seem to you to support it?

7. What effect do his own suggestions have on the speaker himself?

8. Can suggestion arise from the audience? If so, show how.

9. Select two instances of suggestion in the speeches found in the
Appendix.