"Don't give me the man who thinks he thinks,
       Don't give me the man who thinks he knows,
    But give me the man who knows he thinks,
       And I have the man who knows he knows!"

_Reading As a Stimulus to Thought_

No matter how dry the cow, however, nor how poor our ability to milk,
there is still the milkman--we can read what others have seen and felt
and thought. Often, indeed, such records will kindle within us that
pre-essential and vital spark, the _desire_ to be a thinker.

The following selection is taken from one of Dr. Newell Dwight Hillis's
lectures, as given in "A Man's Value to Society." Dr. Hillis is a most
fluent speaker--he never refers to notes. He has reserve power. His mind
is a veritable treasure-house of facts and ideas. See how he draws from
a knowledge of fifteen different general or special subjects: geology,
plant life, Palestine, chemistry, Eskimos, mythology, literature, The
Nile, history, law, wit, evolution, religion, biography, and
electricity. Surely, it needs no sage to discover that the secret of
this man's reserve power is the old secret of our artesian well whose
abundance surges from unseen depths.

_THE USES OF BOOKS AND READING[9]_

Each Kingsley approaches a stone as a jeweler approaches a casket to
    unlock the hidden gems. Geikie causes the bit of hard coal to unroll
    the juicy bud, the thick odorous leaves, the pungent boughs, until
    the bit of carbon enlarges into the beauty of a tropic forest. That
    little book of Grant Allen's called "How Plants Grow" exhibits trees
    and shrubs as eating, drinking and marrying. We see certain date
    groves in Palestine, and other date groves in the desert a hundred
    miles away, and the pollen of the one carried upon the trade winds
    to the branches of the other. We see the tree with its strange
    system of water-works, pumping the sap up through pipes and mains;
    we see the chemical laboratory in the branches mixing flavor for the
    orange in one bough, mixing the juices of the pineapple in another;
    we behold the tree as a mother making each infant acorn ready
    against the long winter, rolling it in swaths soft and warm as wool
    blankets, wrapping it around with garments impervious to the rain,
    and finally slipping the infant acorn into a sleeping bag, like
    those the Eskimos gave Dr. Kane.

At length we come to feel that the Greeks were not far wrong in
   thinking each tree had a dryad in it, animating it, protecting it
   against destruction, dying when the tree withered. Some Faraday
   shows us that each drop of water is a sheath for electric forces
   sufficient to charge 800,000 Leyden jars, or drive an engine from
   Liverpool to London. Some Sir William Thomson tells us how
   hydrogen gas will chew up a large iron spike as a child's molars
   will chew off the end of a stick of candy. Thus each new book
   opens up some new and hitherto unexplored realm of nature. Thus
   books fulfill for us the legend of the wondrous glass that showed
   its owner all things distant and all things hidden. Through books
   our world becomes as "a bud from the bower of God's beauty; the
   sun as a spark from the light of His wisdom; the sky as a bubble
   on the sea of His Power." Therefore Mrs. Browning's words, "No
   child can be called fatherless who has God and his mother; no
   youth can be called friendless who has God and the companionship
   of good books."

Books also advantage us in that they exhibit the unity of
   progress, the solidarity of the race, and the continuity of
   history. Authors lead us back along the pathway of law, of
   liberty or religion, and set us down in front of the great man in
   whose brain the principle had its rise. As the discoverer leads
   us from the mouth of the Nile back to the headwaters of Nyanza,
   so books exhibit great ideas and institutions, as they move
   forward, ever widening and deepening, like some Nile feeding many
   civilizations. For all the reforms of to-day go back to some
   reform of yesterday. Man's art goes back to Athens and Thebes.
   Man's laws go back to Blackstone and Justinian. Man's reapers and
   plows go back to the savage scratching the ground with his forked
   stick, drawn by the wild bullock. The heroes of liberty march
   forward in a solid column. Lincoln grasps the hand of Washington.
   Washington received his weapons at the hands of Hampden and
   Cromwell. The great Puritans lock hands with Luther and
   Savonarola.

The unbroken procession brings us at length to Him whose Sermon
   on the Mount was the very charter of liberty. It puts us under a
   divine spell to perceive that we are all coworkers with the great
   men, and yet single threads in the warp and woof of civilization.
   And when books have related us to our own age, and related all
   the epochs to God, whose providence is the gulf stream of
   history, these teachers go on to stimulate us to new and greater
   achievements. Alone, man is an unlighted candle. The mind needs
   some book to kindle its faculties. Before Byron began to write he
   used to give half an hour to reading some favorite passage. The
   thought of some great writer never failed to kindle Byron into a
   creative glow, even as a match lights the kindlings upon the
   grate. In these burning, luminous moods Byron's mind did its best
   work. The true book stimulates the mind as no wine can ever
   quicken the blood. It is reading that brings us to our best, and
   rouses each faculty to its most vigorous life.

We recognize this as pure cream, and if it seems at first to have its
secondary source in the friendly milkman, let us not forget that the
theme is "The Uses of Books and Reading." Dr. Hillis both sees and
thinks.

It is fashionable just now to decry the value of reading. We read, we
are told, to avoid the necessity of thinking for ourselves. Books are
for the mentally lazy.