But another thing for us to remember is that this blow was aimed
    at the life of the government and of the nation. Lincoln was
    slain; America was meant. The man was cast down; the government
    was smitten at. It was the President who was killed. It was
    national life, breathing freedom and meaning beneficence, that
    was sought. He, the man of Illinois, the private man, divested
    of robes and the insignia of authority, representing nothing but
    his personal self, might have been hated; but that would not
    have called forth the murderer's blow. It was because he stood
    in the place of government, representing government and a
    government that represented right and liberty, that he was
    singled out.

This, then, is a crime against universal government. It is not a
    blow at the foundations of our government, more than at the
    foundations of the English government, of the French government,
    of every compact and well-organized government. It was a crime
    against mankind. The whole world will repudiate and stigmatize
    it as a deed without a shade of redeeming light....

The blow, however, has signally failed. The cause is not
    stricken; it is strengthened. This nation has dissolved,--but in
    tears only. It stands, four-square, more solid, to-day, than any
    pyramid in Egypt. This people are neither wasted, nor daunted,
    nor disordered. Men hate slavery and love liberty with stronger
    hate and love to-day than ever before. The Government is not
    weakened, it is made stronger....

And now the martyr is moving in triumphal march, mightier than
    when alive. The nation rises up at every stage of his coming.
    Cities and states are his pall-bearers, and the cannon beats the
    hours with solemn progression. Dead--dead--dead--he yet
    speaketh! Is Washington dead? Is Hampden dead? Is David dead? Is
    any man dead that ever was fit to live? Disenthralled of flesh,
    and risen to the unobstructed sphere where passion never comes,
    he begins his illimitable work. His life now is grafted upon the
    Infinite, and will be fruitful as no earthly life can be. Pass
    on, thou that hast overcome! Your sorrows O people, are his
    peace! Your bells, and bands, and muffled drums sound triumph in
    his ear. Wail and weep here; God makes it echo joy and triumph
    there. Pass on, victor!

Four years ago, O Illinois, we took from your midst an untried
    man, and from among the people; we return him to you a mighty
    conqueror. Not thine any more, but the nation's; not ours, but
    the world's. Give him place, ye prairies! In the midst of this
    great Continent his dust shall rest, a sacred treasure to
    myriads who shall make pilgrimage to that shrine to kindle anew
    their zeal and patriotism. Ye winds, that move over the mighty
    places of the West, chant his requiem! Ye people, behold a
    martyr, whose blood, as so many inarticulate words, pleads for
    fidelity, for law, for liberty!

--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

_THE HISTORY OF LIBERTY_

The event which we commemorate is all-important, not merely in
    our own annals, but in those of the world. The sententious
    English poet has declared that "the proper study of mankind is
    man," and of all inquiries of a temporal nature, the history of
    our fellow-beings is unquestionably among the most interesting.
    But not all the chapters of human history are alike important.
    The annals of our race have been filled up with incidents which
    concern not, or at least ought not to concern, the great company
    of mankind. History, as it has often been written, is the
    genealogy of princes, the field-book of conquerors; and the
    fortunes of our fellow-men have been treated only so far as they
    have been affected by the influence of the great masters and
    destroyers of our race. Such history is, I will not say a
    worthless study, for it is necessary for us to know the dark
    side as well as the bright side of our condition. But it is a
    melancholy study which fills the bosom of the philanthropist and
    the friend of liberty with sorrow.

But the history of liberty--the history of men struggling to be
    free--the history of men who have acquired and are exercising
    their freedom--the history of those great movements in the
    world, by which liberty has been established and perpetuated,
    forms a subject which we cannot contemplate too closely. This is
    the real history of man, of the human family, of rational
    immortal beings....

The trial of adversity was theirs; the trial of prosperity is
    ours. Let us meet it as men who know their duty and prize their
    blessings. Our position is the most enviable, the most
    responsible, which men can fill. If this generation does its
    duty, the cause of constitutional freedom is safe. If we
    fail--if we fail--not only do we defraud our children of the
    inheritance which we received from our fathers, but we blast the
    hopes of the friends of liberty throughout our continent,
    throughout Europe, throughout the world, to the end of time.

History is not without her examples of hard-fought fields, where
    the banner of liberty has floated triumphantly on the wildest
    storm of battle. She is without her examples of a people by whom
    the dear-bought treasure has been wisely employed and safely
    handed down. The eyes of the world are turned for that example
    to us....

Let us, then, as we assemble on the birthday of the nation, as
    we gather upon the green turf, once wet with precious blood--let
    us devote ourselves to the sacred cause of constitutional
    liberty! Let us abjure the interests and passions which divide
    the great family of American freemen! Let the rage of party
    spirit sleep to-day! Let us resolve that our children shall have
    cause to bless the memory of their fathers, as we have cause to
    bless the memory of ours!