The past rises before me like a dream. Again we are in the
    great struggle for national life. We hear the sounds of
    preparation--the music of the boisterous drums, the silver
    voices of heroic bugles. We see thousands of assemblages, and
    hear the appeals of orators; we see the pale cheeks of women and
    the flushed faces of men; and in those assemblages we see all
    the dead whose dust we have covered with flowers. We lose sight
    of them no more. We are with them when they enlist in the great
    army of freedom. We see them part from those they love. Some are
    walking for the last time in quiet woody places with the maiden
    they adore. We hear the whisperings and the sweet vows of
    eternal love as they lingeringly part forever. Others are
    bending over cradles, kissing babies that are asleep. Some are
    receiving the blessings of old men. Some are parting from those
    who hold them and press them to their hearts again and again,
    and say nothing; and some are talking with wives, and
    endeavoring with brave words spoken in the old tones to drive
    from their hearts the awful fear. We see them part. We see the
    wife standing in the door, with the babe in her arms--standing
    in the sunlight sobbing; at the turn of the road a hand
    waves--she answers by holding high in her loving hands the
    child. He is gone--and forever.

--ROBERT J. INGERSOLL, _to the Soldiers of Indianapolis_.

8. Where would you pause in the following selections? Try pausing in
different places and note the effect it gives.

The moving finger writes; and having writ moves on: nor all your
    piety nor wit shall lure it back to cancel half a line, nor all
    your tears wash out a word of it.

The history of womankind is a story of abuse. For ages men beat,
    sold, and abused their wives and daughters like cattle. The
    Spartan mother that gave birth to one of her own sex disgraced
    herself; the girl babies were often deserted in the mountains to
    starve; China bound and deformed their feet; Turkey veiled their
    faces; America denied them equal educational advantages with
    men. Most of the world still refuses them the right to
    participate in the government and everywhere women bear the
    brunt of an unequal standard of morality.

But the women are on the march. They are walking upward to the
    sunlit plains where the thinking people rule. China has ceased
    binding their feet. In the shadow of the Harem Turkey has opened
    a school for girls. America has given the women equal
    educational advantages, and America, we believe, will
    enfranchise them.

We can do little to help and not much to hinder this great
    movement. The thinking people have put their O.K. upon it. It is
    moving forward to its goal just as surely as this old earth is
    swinging from the grip of winter toward the spring's blossoms
    and the summer's harvest.[1]

9. Read aloud the following address, paying careful attention to pause
wherever the emphasis may thereby be heightened.

_THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT_

... At last, the Republican party has appeared. It avows, now,
    as the Republican party of 1800 did, in one word, its faith and
    its works, "Equal and exact justice to all men." Even when it
    first entered the field, only half organized, it struck a blow
    which only just failed to secure complete and triumphant
    victory. In this, its second campaign, it has already won
    advantages which render that triumph now both easy and certain.
    The secret of its assured success lies in that very
    characteristic which, in the mouth of scoffers, constitutes its
    great and lasting imbecility and reproach. It lies in the fact
    that it is a party of one idea; but that is a noble one--an idea
    that fills and expands all generous souls; the idea of equality
    of all men before human tribunals and human laws, as they all
    are equal before the Divine tribunal and Divine laws.

I know, and you know, that a revolution has begun. I know, and
    all the world knows, that revolutions never go backward. Twenty
    senators and a hundred representatives proclaim boldly in
    Congress to-day sentiments and opinions and principles of
    freedom which hardly so many men, even in this free State, dared
    to utter in their own homes twenty years ago. While the
    government of the United States, under the conduct of the
    Democratic party, has been all that time surrendering one plain
    and castle after another to slavery, the people of the United
    States have been no less steadily and perseveringly gathering
    together the forces with which to recover back again all the
    fields and all the castles which have been lost, and to confound
    and overthrow, by one decisive blow, the betrayers of the
    Constitution and freedom forever.

--W.H. SEWARD.

[Footnote 1: From an editorial by D.C. in _Leslie's Weekly_, June 4,
1914. Used by permission.]

CHAPTER VII

EFFICIENCY THROUGH INFLECTION

How soft the music of those village bells,
    Falling at intervals upon the ear
    In cadence sweet; now dying all away,
    Now pealing loud again, and louder still,
    Clear and sonorous, as the gale comes on!
    With easy force it opens all the cells
    Where Memory slept.

--WILLIAM COWPER, _The Task_.

Herbert Spencer remarked that "Cadence"--by which he meant the
modulation of the tones of the voice in speaking--"is the running
commentary of the emotions upon the propositions of the intellect." How
true this is will appear when we reflect that the little upward and
downward shadings of the voice tell more truly what we mean than our
words. The expressiveness of language is literally multiplied by this
subtle power to shade the vocal tones, and this voice-shading we call
_inflection_.