Deliver the following with decisive strokes on the emphatic ideas.
Deliver it in a vivacious manner, noting the elastic touch-action of the
tongue. A flexible, responsive tongue is absolutely essential to good
voice work.

_FROM NAPOLEON'S ADDRESS TO THE DIRECTORY ON HIS RETURN FROM EGYPT_

What have you done with that brilliant France which I left you?
    I left you at peace, and I find you at war. I left you
    victorious and I find you defeated. I left you the millions of
    Italy, and I find only spoliation and poverty. What have you
    done with the hundred thousand Frenchmen, my companions in
    glory? They are dead!... This state of affairs cannot last long;
    in less than three years it would plunge us into despotism.

Practise the following selection, for the development of elastic touch;
say it in a joyous spirit, using the exercise to develop voice charm in
_all_ the ways suggested in this chapter.

_THE BROOK_

I come from haunts of coot and hern,
        I make a sudden sally,
    And sparkle out among the fern,
        To bicker down a valley.

By thirty hills I hurry down,
        Or slip between the ridges;
    By twenty thorps, a little town,
        And half a hundred bridges.

Till last by Philip's farm I flow
        To join the brimming river;
    For men may come and men may go,
        But I go on forever.

I chatter over stony ways,
        In little sharps and trebles,
    I bubble into eddying bays,
        I babble on the pebbles.

With many a curve my banks I fret,
        By many a field and fallow,
    And many a fairy foreland set
        With willow-weed and mallow.

I chatter, chatter, as I flow
        To join the brimming river;
    For men may come and men may go,
        But I go on forever.

I wind about, and in and out,
        With here a blossom sailing,
    And here and there a lusty trout,
        And here and there a grayling,

And here and there a foamy flake
        Upon me, as I travel,
    With many a silvery water-break
        Above the golden gravel,

And draw them all along, and flow
        To join the brimming river,
    For men may come and men may go,
        But I go on forever.

I steal by lawns and grassy plots,
        I slide by hazel covers,
    I move the sweet forget-me-nots
        That grow for happy lovers.

I slip, I slide, I gloom, I glance,
        Among my skimming swallows;
    I make the netted sunbeam dance
        Against my sandy shallows,

I murmur under moon and stars
        In brambly wildernesses,
    I linger by my shingly bars,
         I loiter round my cresses;

And out again I curve and flow
         To join the brimming river;
    For men may come and men may go,
         But I go on forever.

--ALFRED TENNYSON.

The children at play on the street, glad from sheer physical vitality,
display a resonance and charm in their voices quite different from the
voices that float through the silent halls of the hospitals. A skilled
physician can tell much about his patient's condition from the mere
sound of the voice. Failing health, or even physical weariness, tells
through the voice. It is always well to rest and be entirely refreshed
before attempting to deliver a public address. As to health, neither
scope nor space permits us to discuss here the laws of hygiene. There
are many excellent books on this subject. In the reign of the Roman
emperor Tiberius, one senator wrote to another: "To the wise, a word is
sufficient."

"The apparel oft proclaims the man;" the voice always does--it is one of
the greatest revealers of character. The superficial woman, the brutish
man, the reprobate, the person of culture, often discloses inner nature
in the voice, for even the cleverest dissembler cannot entirely prevent
its tones and qualities being affected by the slightest change of
thought or emotion. In anger it becomes high, harsh, and unpleasant; in
love low, soft, and melodious--the variations are as limitless as they
are fascinating to observe. Visit a theatrical hotel in a large city,
and listen to the buzz-saw voices of the chorus girls from some
burlesque "attraction." The explanation is simple--buzz-saw lives.
Emerson said: "When a man lives with God his voice shall be as sweet as
the murmur of the brook or the rustle of the corn." It is impossible to
think selfish thoughts and have either an attractive personality, a
lovely character, or a charming voice. If you want to possess voice
charm, cultivate a deep, sincere sympathy for mankind. Love will shine
out through your eyes and proclaim itself in your tones. One secret of
the sweetness of the canary's song may be his freedom from tainted
thoughts. Your character beautifies or mars your voice. As a man
thinketh in his heart so is his voice.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Define (_a_) charm; (_b_) joy; (_c_) beauty.

2. Make a list of all the words related to _joy_.

3. Write a three-minute eulogy of "The Joyful Man."

4. Deliver it without the use of notes. Have you carefully considered
all the qualities that go to make up voice-charm in its delivery?

5. Tell briefly in your own words what means may be employed to develop
a charming voice.

6. Discuss the effect of voice on character.

7. Discuss the effect of character on voice.

8. Analyze the voice charm of any speaker or singer you choose.

9. Analyze the defects of any given voice.

10. Make a short humorous speech imitating certain voice defects,
pointing out reasons.

11. Commit the following stanza and interpret each phase of delight
suggested or expressed by the poet.

An infant when it gazes on a light,
        A child the moment when it drains the breast,
    A devotee when soars the Host in sight,
        An Arab with a stranger for a guest,
    A sailor when the prize has struck in fight,
        A miser filling his most hoarded chest,
    Feel rapture; but not such true joy are reaping
    As they who watch o'er what they love while sleeping.

--BYRON, _Don Juan_.

CHAPTER XIV