_Exhortation_ is a highly impassioned form of appeal frequently used by
the pulpit in efforts to arouse men to a sense of duty and induce them
to decide their personal courses, and by counsel in seeking to influence
a jury. The great preachers, like the great jury-lawyers, have always
been masters of persuasion.

Notice the difference among these four exhortations, and analyze the
motives appealed to:

Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay! Let not a traitor
    live!

--SHAKESPEARE, _Julius Caesar_.

Strike--till the last armed foe expires,
    Strike--for your altars and your fires,
    Strike--for the green graves of your sires,
        God--and your native land!

--FITZ-GREENE HALLECK, _Marco Bozzaris_.

Believe, gentlemen, if it were not for those children, he would
    not come here to-day to seek such remuneration; if it were not
    that, by your verdict, you may prevent those little innocent
    defrauded wretches from becoming wandering beggars, as well as
    orphans on the face of this earth. Oh, I know I need not ask
    this verdict from your mercy; I need not extort it from your
    compassion; I will receive it from your justice. I do conjure
    you, not as fathers, but as husbands:--not as husbands, but as
    citizens:--not as citizens, but as men:--not as men, but as
    Christians:--by all your obligations, public, private, moral,
    and religious; by the hearth profaned; by the home desolated; by
    the canons of the living God foully spurned;--save, oh: save
    your firesides from the contagion, your country from the crime,
    and perhaps thousands, yet unborn, from the shame, and sin, and
    sorrow of this example!

--CHARLES PHILLIPS, _Appeal to the jury in behalf of Guthrie._

So I appeal from the men in silken hose who danced to music made
    by slaves and called it freedom, from the men in bell-crown hats
    who led Hester Prynne to her shame and called it religion, to
    that Americanism which reaches forth its arms to smite wrong
    with reason and truth, secure in the power of both. I appeal
    from the patriarchs of New England to the poets of New England;
    from Endicott to Lowell; from Winthrop to Longfellow; from
    Norton to Holmes; and I appeal in the name and by the rights of
    that common citizenship--of that common origin, back of both the
    Puritan and the Cavalier, to which all of us owe our being. Let
    the dead past, consecrated by the blood of its martyrs, not by
    its savage hatreds, darkened alike by kingcraft and
    priestcraft--let the dead past bury its dead. Let the present
    and the future ring with the song of the singers. Blessed be the
    lessons they teach, the laws they make. Blessed be the eye to
    see, the light to reveal. Blessed be tolerance, sitting ever on
    the right hand of God to guide the way with loving word, as
    blessed be all that brings us nearer the goal of true religion,
    true republicanism, and true patriotism, distrust of watchwords
    and labels, shams and heroes, belief in our country and
    ourselves. It was not Cotton Mather, but John Greenleaf
    Whittier, who cried:

Dear God and Father of us all,
    Forgive our faith in cruel lies,
    Forgive the blindness that denies.

Cast down our idols--overturn
    Our Bloody altars--make us see
    Thyself in Thy humanity!

--HENRY WATTERSON, _Puritan and Cavalier_.

Goethe, on being reproached for not having written war songs against
the French, replied, "In my poetry I have never shammed. How could I
have written songs of hate without hatred?" Neither is it possible
to plead with full efficiency for a cause for which you do not feel
deeply. Feeling is contagious as belief is contagious. The speaker
who pleads with real feeling for his own convictions will instill
his feelings into his listeners. Sincerity, force, enthusiasm, and
above all, feeling--these are the qualities that move multitudes
and make appeals irresistible. They are of far greater importance
than technical principles of delivery, grace of gesture, or polished
enunciation--important as all these elements must doubtless be
considered. _Base_ your appeal on reason, but do not end in the
basement--let the building rise, full of deep emotion and noble
persuasion.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. (_a_) What elements of appeal do you find in the following? (_b_) Is it
too florid? (_c_) Is this style equally powerful today? (_d_) Are the
sentences too long and involved for clearness and force?