This principle also has been used in advertising. We are told that the
physicians to two Kings have recommended Sanatogen. We are informed that
the largest bank in America, Tiffany and Co., and The State, War, and
Navy Departments, all use the Encyclopedia Britannica. The shrewd
promoter gives stock in his company to influential bankers or business
men in the community in order that he may use their examples as a
selling argument.

If you wish to influence your audience through suggestion, if you would
have your statements accepted without criticism or argument, you should
appear in the light of an authority--and _be_ one. Ignorance and
credulity will remain unchanged unless the suggestion of authority be
followed promptly by facts. Don't claim authority unless you carry your
license in your pocket. Let reason support the position that suggestion
has assumed.

Advertising will help to establish your reputation--it is "up to you" to
maintain it. One speaker found that his reputation as a magazine writer
was a splendid asset as a speaker. Mr. Bryan's publicity, gained by
three nominations for the presidency and his position as Secretary of
State, helps him to command large sums as a speaker. But--back of it
all, he _is_ a great speaker. Newspaper announcements, all kinds of
advertising, formality, impressive introductions, all have a capital
effect on the attitude of the audience. But how ridiculous are all these
if a toy pistol is advertised as a sixteen-inch gun!

Note how authority is used in the following to support the strength of
the speaker's appeal:

Professor Alfred Russell Wallace has just celebrated his 90th
    birthday. Sharing with Charles Darwin the honor of discovering
    evolution, Professor Wallace has lately received many and signal
    honors from scientific societies. At the dinner given him in
    London his address was largely made up of reminiscences. He
    reviewed the progress of civilization during the last century
    and made a series of brilliant and startling contrasts between
    the England of 1813 and the world of 1913. He affirmed that our
    progress is only seeming and not real. Professor Wallace insists
    that the painters, the sculptors, the architects of Athens and
    Rome were so superior to the modern men that the very fragments
    of their marbles and temples are the despair of the present day
    artists. He tells us that man has improved his telescope and
    spectacles, but that he is losing his eyesight; that man is
    improving his looms, but stiffening his fingers; improving his
    automobile and his locomotive, but losing his legs; improving
    his foods, but losing his digestion. He adds that the modern
    white slave traffic, orphan asylums, and tenement house life in
    factory towns, make a black page in the history of the twentieth
    century.

Professor Wallace's views are reinforced by the report of the
    commission of Parliament on the causes of the deterioration of
    the factory-class people. In our own country Professor Jordan
    warns us against war, intemperance, overworking, underfeeding of
    poor children, and disturbs our contentment with his "Harvest of
    Blood." Professor Jenks is more pessimistic. He thinks that the
    pace, the climate, and the stress of city life, have broken down
    the Puritan stock, that in another century our old families will
    be extinct, and that the flood of immigration means a Niagara of
    muddy waters fouling the pure springs of American life. In his
    address in New Haven Professor Kellogg calls the roll of the
    signs of race degeneracy and tells us that this deterioration
    even indicates a trend toward race extinction.

--NEWELL DWIGHT HILLIS.

From every side come warnings to the American people. Our
    medical journals are filled with danger signals; new books and
    magazines, fresh from the press, tell us plainly that our people
    are fronting a social crisis. Mr. Jefferson, who was once
    regarded as good Democratic authority, seems to have differed in
    opinion from the gentleman who has addressed us on the part of
    the minority. Those who are opposed to this proposition tell us
    that the issue of paper money is a function of the bank, and
    that the government ought to go out of the banking business. I
    stand with Jefferson rather than with them, and tell them, as he
    did, that the issue of money is a function of government, and
    that the banks ought to go out of the governing business.

--WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN.

Authority is the great weapon against doubt, but even its force can
rarely prevail against prejudice and persistent wrong-headedness. If any
speaker has been able to forge a sword that is warranted to piece such
armor, let him bless humanity by sharing his secret with his platform
brethren everywhere, for thus far he is alone in his glory.

There is a middle-ground between the suggestion of authority and the
confession of weakness that offers a wide range for tact in the speaker.
No one can advise you when to throw your "hat in the ring" and say
defiantly at the outstart, "Gentlemen, I am here to fight!" Theodore
Roosevelt can do that--Beecher would have been mobbed if he had begun in
that style at Liverpool. It is for your own tact to decide whether you
will use the disarming grace of Henry W. Grady's introduction just
quoted (even the time-worn joke was ingenuous and seemed to say,
"Gentlemen, I come to you with no carefully-palmed coins"), or whether
the solemn gravity of Mr. Bryan before the Convention will prove to be
more effective. Only be sure that your opening attitude is well thought
out, and if it change as you warm up to your subject, let not the change
lay you open to a revulsion of feeling in your audience.