IN 399 B.C. A DEMAGOG APPEALED TO THE POPULAR MOB TO HAVE
    SOCRATES PUT TO DEATH _and he was sentenced to the hemlock cup._
    FOURTEEN HUNDRED YEARS AFTERWARD AN ENTHUSIAST APPEALED TO THE
    POPULAR MOB _and all Europe plunged into the Holy Land to kill
    and mangle the heathen. In the seventeenth century a demagog
    appealed to the ignorance of men_ AND TWENTY PEOPLE WERE
    EXECUTED AT SALEM, MASS., WITHIN SIX MONTHS FOR WITCHCRAFT. _Two
    thousand years ago the mob yelled_, "_RELEASE UNTO US
    BARABBAS_"--AND BARABBAS WAS A MURDERER!

--_From an Editorial by D.C. in "Leslie's Weekly," by permission._

_Present-day business_ is as unlike OLD-TIME BUSINESS as the
    OLD-TIME OX-CART is unlike the _present-day locomotive._
    INVENTION has made the _whole world over again. The railroad,
    telegraph, telephone_ have bound the people of MODERN NATIONS
    into FAMILIES. _To do the business of these closely knit
    millions in every modern country_ GREAT BUSINESS CONCERNS CAME
    INTO BEING. _What we call big business is the_ CHILD OF THE
    ECONOMIC PROGRESS OF MANKIND. _So warfare to destroy big
    business_ is FOOLISH BECAUSE IT CAN NOT SUCCEED _and wicked_
    BECAUSE IT OUGHT NOT TO SUCCEED. _Warfare to destroy big
    business does not hurt big business, which always comes out on
    top_, SO MUCH AS IT HURTS ALL OTHER BUSINESS WHICH, IN SUCH A
    WARFARE, NEVER COME OUT ON TOP.

--A.J. BEVERIDGE.

_Change of Tempo Produces Emphasis_

Any big change of tempo is emphatic and will catch the attention. You
may scarcely be conscious that a passenger train is moving when it is
flying over the rails at ninety miles an hour, but if it slows down very
suddenly to a ten-mile gait your attention will be drawn to it very
decidedly. You may forget that you are listening to music as you dine,
but let the orchestra either increase or diminish its tempo in a very
marked degree and your attention will be arrested at once.

This same principle will procure emphasis in a speech. If you have a
point that you want to bring home to your audience forcefully, make a
sudden and great change of tempo, and they will be powerless to keep
from paying attention to that point. Recently the present writer saw a
play in which these lines were spoken:

"I don't want you to forget what I said. I want you to remember it the
longest day you--I don't care if you've got six guns." The part up to
the dash was delivered in a very slow tempo, the remainder was named out
at lightning speed, as the character who was spoken to drew a revolver.
The effect was so emphatic that the lines are remembered six months
afterwards, while most of the play has faded from memory. The student
who has powers of observation will see this principle applied by all our
best actors in their efforts to get emphasis where emphasis is due. But
remember that the emotion in the matter must warrant the intensity in
the manner, or the effect will be ridiculous. Too many public speakers
are impressive over nothing.

Thought rather than rules must govern you while practising change of
pace. It is often a matter of no consequence which part of a sentence is
spoken slowly and which is given in fast tempo. The main thing to be
desired is the change itself. For example, in the selection, "The Mob,"
on page 46, note the last paragraph. Reverse the instructions given,
delivering everything that is marked for slow tempo, quickly; and
everything that is marked for quick tempo, slowly. You will note that
the force or meaning of the passage has not been destroyed.

However, many passages cannot be changed to a slow tempo without
destroying their force. Instances: The Patrick Henry speech on page 110,
and the following passage from Whittier's "Barefoot Boy."

O for boyhood's time of June, crowding years in one brief moon,
    when all things I heard or saw, me, their master, waited for. I
    was rich in flowers and trees, humming-birds and honey-bees; for
    my sport the squirrel played; plied the snouted mole his spade;
    for my taste the blackberry cone purpled over hedge and stone;
    laughed the brook for my delight through the day and through the
    night, whispering at the garden wall, talked with me from fall
    to fall; mine the sand-rimmed pickerel pond; mine the walnut
    slopes beyond; mine, an bending orchard trees, apples of
    Hesperides! Still, as my horizon grew, larger grew my riches,
    too; all the world I saw or knew seemed a complex Chinese toy,
    fashioned for a barefoot boy!

--J.G. WHITTIER.

Be careful in regulating your tempo not to get your movement too fast.
This is a common fault with amateur speakers. Mrs. Siddons rule was,
"Take time." A hundred years ago there was used in medical circles a
preparation known as "the shot gun remedy;" it was a mixture of about
fifty different ingredients, and was given to the patient in the hope
that at least one of them would prove efficacious! That seems a rather
poor scheme for medical practice, but it is good to use "shot gun" tempo
for most speeches, as it gives a variety. Tempo, like diet, is best when
mixed.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Define tempo.

2. What words come from the same root?

3. What is meant by a change of tempo?

4. What effects are gained by it?

5. Name three methods of destroying monotony and gaining force in
speaking.

6. Note the changes of tempo in a conversation or speech that you hear.
Were they well made? Why? Illustrate.

7. Read selections on pages 34, 35, 36, 37, and 38, paying careful
attention to change of tempo.

8. As a rule, excitement, joy, or intense anger take a fast tempo, while
sorrow, and sentiments of great dignity or solemnity tend to a slow
tempo. Try to deliver Lincoln's Gettysburg speech (page 50), in a fast
tempo, or Patrick Henry's speech (page 110), in a slow tempo, and note
how ridiculous the effect will be.