The enemies of the Republic call me tyrant! Were I such they
    would grovel at my feet. I should gorge them with gold, I should
    grant them immunity for their crimes, and they would be
    grateful. Were I such, the kings we have vanquished, far from
    denouncing Robespierre, would lend me their guilty support;
    there would be a covenant between them and me. Tyranny must have
    tools. But the enemies of tyranny,--whither does their path
    tend? To the tomb, and to immortality! What tyrant is my
    protector? To what faction do I belong? Yourselves! What
    faction, since the beginning of the Revolution, has crushed and
    annihilated so many detected traitors? You, the people,--our
    principles--are that faction--a faction to which I am devoted,
    and against which all the scoundrelism of the day is banded!

The confirmation of the Republic has been my object; and I know
    that the Republic can be established only on the eternal basis
    of morality. Against me, and against those who hold kindred
    principles, the league is formed. My life? Oh! my life I abandon
    without a regret! I have seen the past; and I foresee the
    future. What friend of this country would wish to survive the
    moment when he could no longer serve it,--when he could no
    longer defend innocence against oppression? Wherefore should I
    continue in an order of things, where intrigue eternally
    triumphs over truth; where justice is mocked; where passions the
    most abject, or fears the most absurd, over-ride the sacred
    interests of humanity? In witnessing the multitude of vices
    which the torrent of the Revolution has rolled in turbid
    communion with its civic virtues, I confess that I have
    sometimes feared that I should be sullied, in the eyes of
    posterity, by the impure neighborhood of unprincipled men, who
    had thrust themselves into association with the sincere friends
    of humanity; and I rejoice that these conspirators against my
    country have now, by their reckless rage, traced deep the line
    of demarcation between themselves and all true men.

Question history, and learn how all the defenders of liberty, in
    all times, have been overwhelmed by calumny. But their traducers
    died also. The good and the bad disappear alike from the earth;
    but in very different conditions. O Frenchmen! O my countrymen!
    Let not your enemies, with their desolating doctrines, degrade
    your souls, and enervate your virtues! No, Chaumette, no! Death
    is not "an eternal sleep!" Citizens! efface from the tomb that
    motto, graven by sacrilegious hands, which spreads over all
    nature a funereal crape, takes from oppressed innocence its
    support, and affronts the beneficent dispensation of death!
    Inscribe rather thereon these words: "Death is the commencement
    of immortality!" I leave to the oppressors of the People a
    terrible testament, which I proclaim with the independence
    befitting one whose career is so nearly ended; it is the awful
    truth--"Thou shalt die!"

[Footnote 6: _School and College Speaker_, Mitchell.]

[Footnote 7: _School and College Speaker_, Mitchell.]

THE TRUTH ABOUT GESTURE

When Whitefield acted an old blind man advancing by slow steps
    toward the edge of the precipice, Lord Chesterfield started up
    and cried: "Good God, he is gone!"

--NATHAN SHEPPARD, _Before an Audience_.

Gesture is really a simple matter that requires observation and common
sense rather than a book of rules. Gesture is an outward expression of
an inward condition. It is merely an effect--the effect of a mental or
an emotional impulse struggling for expression through physical avenues.

You must not, however, begin at the wrong end: if you are troubled by
your gestures, or a lack of gestures, attend to the cause, not the
effect. It will not in the least help matters to tack on to your
delivery a few mechanical movements. If the tree in your front yard is
not growing to suit you, fertilize and water the soil and let the tree
have sunshine. Obviously it will not help your tree to nail on a few
branches. If your cistern is dry, wait until it rains; or bore a well.
Why plunge a pump into a dry hole?

The speaker whose thoughts and emotions are welling within him like a
mountain spring will not have much trouble to make gestures; it will be
merely a question of properly directing them. If his enthusiasm for his
subject is not such as to give him a natural impulse for dramatic
action, it will avail nothing to furnish him with a long list of rules.
He may tack on some movements, but they will look like the wilted
branches nailed to a tree to simulate life. Gestures must be born, not
built. A wooden horse may amuse the children, but it takes a live one to
go somewhere.

It is not only impossible to lay down definite rules on this subject,
but it would be silly to try, for everything depends on the speech, the
occasion, the personality and feelings of the speaker, and the attitude
of the audience. It is easy enough to forecast the result of multiplying
seven by six, but it is impossible to tell any man what kind of gestures
he will be impelled to use when he wishes to show his earnestness. We
may tell him that many speakers close the hand, with the exception of
the forefinger, and pointing that finger straight at the audience pour
out their thoughts like a volley; or that others stamp one foot for
emphasis; or that Mr. Bryan often slaps his hands together for great
force, holding one palm upward in an easy manner; or that Gladstone
would sometimes make a rush at the clerk's table in Parliament and smite
it with his hand so forcefully that D'israeli once brought down the
house by grimly congratulating himself that such a barrier stood between
himself and "the honorable gentleman."