=Contrast and Antithesis= are often used effectively to amplify
definition, as in this sentence, which immediately follows the
above-cited definition:

Exposition therefore differs from Description in that it deals
    directly with the meaning or intent of its subject instead of
    with its appearance.

This antithesis forms an expansion of the definition, and as such it
might have been still further extended. In fact, this is a frequent
practise in public speech, where the minds of the hearers often ask for
reiteration and expanded statement to help them grasp a subject in its
several aspects. This is the very heart of exposition--to amplify and
clarify all the terms by which a matter is defined.

=Example= is another method of amplifying a definition or of expounding
an idea more fully. The following sentences immediately succeed Mr.
Bates's definition and contrast just quoted:

A good deal which we are accustomed inexactly to call
    description is really exposition. Suppose that your small boy
    wishes to know how an engine works, and should say: "Please
    describe the steam-engine to me." If you insist on taking his
    words literally--and are willing to run the risk of his
    indignation at being wilfully misunderstood--you will to the
    best of your ability picture to him this familiarly wonderful
    machine. If you explain it to him, you are not describing but
    expounding it.

The chief value of example is that it makes clear the unknown by
referring the mind to the known. Readiness of mind to make illuminating,
apt comparisons for the sake of clearness is one of the speaker's chief
resources on the platform--it is the greatest of all teaching gifts. It
is a gift, moreover, that responds to cultivation. Read the three
extracts from Arlo Bates as their author delivered them, as one passage,
and see how they melt into one, each part supplementing the other most
helpfully.

=Analogy=, which calls attention to similar relationships in objects not
otherwise similar, is one of the most useful methods of exposition. The
following striking specimen is from Beecher's Liverpool speech:

A savage is a man of one story, and that one story a cellar.
    When a man begins to be civilized he raises another story. When
    you christianize and civilize the man, you put story upon story,
    for you develop faculty after faculty; and you have to supply
    every story with your productions.

=Discarding= is a less common form of platform explanation. It consists
in clearing away associated ideas so that the attention may be centered
on the main thought to be discussed. Really, it is a negative factor in
exposition though a most important one, for it is fundamental to the
consideration of an intricately related matter that subordinate and side
questions should be set aside in order to bring out the main issue. Here
is an example of the method:

I cannot allow myself to be led aside from the only issue before
    this jury. It is not pertinent to consider that this prisoner is
    the husband of a heartbroken woman and that his babes will go
    through the world under the shadow of the law's extremest
    penalty worked upon their father. We must forget the venerable
    father and the mother whom Heaven in pity took before she
    learned of her son's disgrace. What have these matters of heart,
    what have the blenched faces of his friends, what have the
    prisoner's long and honorable career to say before this bar when
    you are sworn to weigh only the direct evidence before you? The
    one and only question for you to decide on the evidence is
    whether this man did with revengeful intent commit the murder
    that every impartial witness has solemnly laid at his door.

=Classification= assigns a subject to its class. By an allowable extension
of the definition it may be said to assign it also to its order, genus,
and species. Classification is useful in public speech in narrowing the
issue to a desired phase. It is equally valuable for showing a thing in
its relation to other things, or in correlation. Classification is
closely akin to Definition and Division.

This question of the liquor traffic, sirs, takes its place
    beside the grave moral issues of all times. Whatever be its
    economic significance--and who is there to question
    it--whatever vital bearing it has upon our political system--and
    is there one who will deny it?--the question of the licensed
    saloon must quickly be settled as the world in its advancement
    has settled the questions of constitutional government for the
    masses, of the opium traffic, of the serf, and of the slave--not
    as matters of economic and political expediency but as questions
    of right and wrong.

=Analysis= separates a subject into its essential parts. This it may do by
various principles; for example, analysis may follow the order of time
(geologic eras), order of place (geographic facts), logical order (a
sermon outline), order of increasing interest, or procession to a climax
(a lecture on 20th century poets); and so on. A classic example of
analytical exposition is the following:

In philosophy the contemplations of man do either penetrate unto
    God, or are circumferred to nature, or are reflected or reverted
    upon himself. Out of which several inquiries there do arise
    three knowledges: divine philosophy, natural philosophy, and
    human philosophy or humanity. For all things are marked and
    stamped with this triple character, of the power of God, the
    difference of nature, and the use of man.

--LORD BACON, _The Advancement of Learning_.[16]

=Division= differs only from analysis in that analysis follows the
inherent divisions of a subject, as illustrated in the foregoing
passage, while division arbitrarily separates the subject for
convenience of treatment, as in the following none-too-logical example: