Practise the following selections, noting carefully where the tempo may
be changed to advantage. Experiment, making numerous changes. Which one
do you like best?

_DEDICATION OF GETTYSBURG CEMETERY_

Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth upon
    this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated
    to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are
    engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation--or
    any nation so conceived and so dedicated--can long endure.

We are met on a great battlefield of that war. We are met to
    dedicate a portion of it as the final resting-place of those who
    have given their lives that that nation might live. It is
    altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.

But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot
    consecrate, we cannot hallow, this ground. The brave men, living
    and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our
    power to add or to detract. The world will very little note nor
    long remember what we say here; but it can never forget what
    they did here.

It is for us, the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the
    unfinished work they have thus far so nobly carried on. It is
    rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining
    before us: that from these honored dead we take increased
    devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full
    measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that these dead
    shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall, under God,
    have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people,
    by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.

--ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

_A PLEA FOR CUBA_

[This deliberative oration was delivered by Senator Thurston in
    the United States Senate on March 24, 1898. It is recorded in
    full in the _Congressional Record_ of that date. Mrs. Thurston
    died in Cuba. As a dying request she urged her husband, who was
    investigating affairs in the island, to do his utmost to induce
    the United States to intervene--hence this oration.]

Mr. President, I am here by command of silent lips to speak once
    and for all upon the Cuban situation. I shall endeavor to be
    honest, conservative, and just. I have no purpose to stir the
    public passion to any action not necessary and imperative to
    meet the duties and necessities of American responsibility,
    Christian humanity, and national honor. I would shirk this task
    if I could, but I dare not. I cannot satisfy my conscience
    except by speaking, and speaking now.

I went to Cuba firmly believing that the condition of affairs
    there had been greatly exaggerated by the press, and my own
    efforts were directed in the first instance to the attempted
    exposure of these supposed exaggerations. There has undoubtedly
    been much sensationalism in the journalism of the time, but as
    to the condition of affairs in Cuba, there has been no
    exaggeration, because exaggeration has been impossible.

Under the inhuman policy of Weyler not less than four hundred
    thousand self-supporting, simple, peaceable, defenseless country
    people were driven from their homes in the agricultural portions
    of the Spanish provinces to the cities, and imprisoned upon the
    barren waste outside the residence portions of these cities and
    within the lines of intrenchment established a little way
    beyond. Their humble homes were burned, their fields laid waste,
    their implements of husbandry destroyed, their live stock and
    food supplies for the most part confiscated. Most of the people
    were old men, women, and children. They were thus placed in
    hopeless imprisonment, without shelter or food. There was no
    work for them in the cities to which they were driven. They were
    left with nothing to depend upon except the scanty charity of
    the inhabitants of the cities and with slow starvation their
    inevitable fate....

The pictures in the American newspapers of the starving
    reconcentrados are true. They can all be duplicated by the
    thousands. I never before saw, and please God I may never again
    see, so deplorable a sight as the reconcentrados in the suburbs
    of Matanzas. I can never forget to my dying day the hopeless
    anguish in their despairing eyes. Huddled about their little
    bark huts, they raised no voice of appeal to us for alms as we
    went among them....

Men, women, and children stand silent, famishing with hunger.
    Their only appeal comes from their sad eyes, through which one
    looks as through an open window into their agonizing souls.

The government of Spain has not appropriated and will not
    appropriate one dollar to save these people. They are now being
    attended and nursed and administered to by the charity of the
    United States. Think of the spectacle! We are feeding these
    citizens of Spain; we are nursing their sick; we are saving such
    as can be saved, and yet there are those who still say it is
    right for us to send food, but we must keep hands off. I say
    that the time has come when muskets ought to go with the food.

We asked the governor if he knew of any relief for these people
    except through the charity of the United States. He did not. We
    asked him, "When do you think the time will come that these
    people can be placed in a position of self-support?" He replied
    to us, with deep feeling, "Only the good God or the great
    government of the United States will answer that question." I
    hope and believe that the good God by the great government of
    the United States will answer that question.