1. Study the following speech, going back in your imagination to the
time and circumstances that brought it forth. Make it not a memorized
historical document, but feel the emotions that gave it birth. The
speech is only an effect; live over in your own heart the causes that
produced it and try to deliver it at white heat. It is not possible for
you to put too much real feeling into it, though of course it would be
quite easy to rant and fill it with false emotion. This speech,
according to Thomas Jefferson, started the ball of the Revolution
rolling. Men were then willing to go out and die for liberty.

_PATRICK HENRY'S SPEECH_

BEFORE THE VIRGINIA CONVENTION OF DELEGATES

Mr. President, it is natural to man to indulge in the illusions
    of hope. We are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth,
    and listen to the song of that siren, till she transforms us to
    beasts. Is this the part of wise men, engaged in a great and
    arduous struggle for liberty? Are we disposed to be of the
    number of those who, having eyes, see not, and having ears, hear
    not, the things which so nearly concern our temporal salvation?
    For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost, I am
    willing to know the whole truth; to know the worst, and to
    provide for it.

I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided; and that is the
    lamp of experience. I know of no way of judging of the future
    but by the past. And judging by the past, I wish to know what
    there has been in the conduct of the British Ministry for the
    last ten years to justify those hopes with which gentlemen have
    been pleased to solace themselves and the House? Is it that
    insidious smile with which our petition has been lately
    received? Trust it not, sir; it will prove a snare to your
    feet. Suffer not yourselves to be "betrayed with a kiss"! Ask
    yourselves, how this gracious reception of our petition comports
    with those warlike preparations which cover our waters and
    darken our land. Are fleets and armies necessary to a work of
    love and reconciliation? Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to
    be reconciled, that force must be called in to win back our
    love? Let us not deceive ourselves, sir. These are the
    implements of war and subjugation, the last "arguments" to which
    kings resort.

I ask gentlemen, sir, what means this martial array, if its
    purpose be not to force us to submission? Can gentlemen assign
    any other possible motive for it? Has Great Britain any enemy in
    this quarter of the world, to call for all this accumulation of
    navies and armies? No, sir, she has none. They are meant for us;
    they can be meant for no other. They are sent over to bind and
    to rivet upon us those chains which the British Ministry have
    been so long forging. And what have we to oppose to them? Shall
    we try argument? Sir, we have been trying that for the last ten
    years. Have we anything new to offer upon the subject? Nothing.
    We have held the subject up in every light of which it is
    capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to
    entreaty and humble supplication? What terms shall we find which
    have not been already exhausted? Let us not, I beseech you, sir,
    deceive ourselves longer. Sir, we have done everything that
    could be done, to avert the storm which is now coming on. We
    have petitioned, we have remonstrated, we have supplicated, we
    have prostrated ourselves before the throne, and have implored
    its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands of the Ministry
    and Parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our
    remonstrances have produced additional violence and insult; our
    supplications have been disregarded, and we have been spurned
    with contempt from the foot of the throne. In vain, after these
    things, may we indulge in the fond hope of peace and
    reconciliation. There is no longer any room for hope. If we wish
    to be free, if we mean to preserve inviolate those inestimable
    privileges for which we have been so long contending; if we mean
    not basely to abandon the noble struggle in which we have been
    so long engaged, and which we have pledged ourselves never to
    abandon until the glorious object of our contest shall be
    obtained, we must fight; I repeat it, sir, we must fight! An
    appeal to arms, and to the God of Hosts, is all that is left us!