They tell us, sir, that we are weak--"unable to cope with so
    formidable an adversary"! But when shall we be stronger? Will it
    be the next week, or the next year? Will it be when we are
    totally disarmed, and when a British guard shall be stationed in
    every house? Shall we gather strength by irresolution and
    inaction? Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance, by
    lying supinely on our backs, and hugging the delusive phantom of
    hope, until our enemies have bound us hand and foot? Sir, we are
    not weak, if we make a proper use of those means which the God
    of Nature hath placed in our power. Three millions of people,
    armed in the holy cause of Liberty, and in such a country as
    that which we possess, are invincible by any force which our
    enemy can send against us. Besides, sir, we shall not fight our
    battles alone. There is a just Power who presides over the
    destinies of nations, and who will raise up friends to fight our
    battles for us. The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone; it
    is to the vigilant, the active, the brave. Besides, sir, we have
    no election. If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too
    late to retire from the contest. There is no retreat, but in
    submission and slavery. Our chains are forged. Their clanking
    may be heard on the plains of Boston. The war is inevitable; and
    let it come! I repeat it, sir, let it come! It is in vain, sir,
    to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry "Peace, peace!" but
    there is no peace! The war is actually begun! The next gale that
    sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of
    resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field! Why
    stand we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would
    they have? Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be
    purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it,
    Almighty Powers!--I know not what course others may take; but as
    for me, give me liberty or give me death!

2. Live over in your imagination all the solemnity and sorrow that
Lincoln felt at the Gettysburg cemetery. The feeling in this speech is
very deep, but it is quieter and more subdued than the preceding one.
The purpose of Henry's address was to get action; Lincoln's speech was
meant only to dedicate the last resting place of those who had acted.
Read it over and over (see page 50) until it burns in your soul. Then
commit it and repeat it for emotional expression.

3. Beecher's speech on Lincoln, page 76; Thurston's speech on "A Plea
for Cuba," page 50; and the following selection, are recommended for
practise in developing feeling in delivery.

A living force that brings to itself all the resources of
    imagination, all the inspirations of feeling, all that is
    influential in body, in voice, in eye, in gesture, in posture,
    in the whole animated man, is in strict analogy with the divine
    thought and the divine arrangement; and there is no
    misconstruction more utterly untrue and fatal than this: that
    oratory is an artificial thing, which deals with baubles and
    trifles, for the sake of making bubbles of pleasure for
    transient effect on mercurial audiences. So far from that, it is
    the consecration of the whole man to the noblest purposes to
    which one can address himself--the education and inspiration of
    his fellow men by all that there is in learning, by all that
    there is in thought, by all that there is in feeling, by all
    that there is in all of them, sent home through the channels of
    taste and of beauty.

--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

4. What in your opinion are the relative values of thought and feeling
in a speech?

5. Could we dispense with either?

6. What kinds of selections or occasions require much feeling and
enthusiasm? Which require little?

7. Invent a list of ten subjects for speeches, saying which would give
most room for pure thought and which for feeling.

8. Prepare and deliver a ten-minute speech denouncing the (imaginary)
unfeeling plea of an attorney; he may be either the counsel for the
defense or the prosecuting attorney, and the accused may be assumed to
be either guilty or innocent, at your option.

9. Is feeling more important than the technical principles expounded in
chapters III to VII? Why?

10. Analyze the secret of some effective speech or speaker. To what is
the success due?

11. Give an example from your own observation of the effect of feeling
and enthusiasm on listeners.

12. Memorize Carlyle's and Emerson's remarks on enthusiasm.

13. Deliver Patrick Henry's address, page 110, and Thurston's speech,
page 50, without show of feeling or enthusiasm. What is the result?

14. Repeat, with all the feeling these selections demand. What is the
result?

15. What steps do you intend to take to develop the power of enthusiasm
and feeling in speaking?

16. Write and deliver a five-minute speech ridiculing a speaker who uses
bombast, pomposity and over-enthusiasm. Imitate him.

FLUENCY THROUGH PREPARATION

Animis opibusque parati--Ready in mind and resources.

--_Motto of South Carolina_.

In omnibus negotiis prius quam aggrediare, adhibenda est
    praeparatio diligens--In all matters before beginning a diligent
    preparation should be made.

--CICERO, _De Officiis_.

Take your dictionary and look up the words that contain the Latin stem
_flu_--the results will be suggestive.

At first blush it would seem that fluency consists in a ready, easy use
of words. Not so--the flowing quality of speech is much more, for it is
a composite effect, with each of its prior conditions deserving of
careful notice.

_The Sources of Fluency_